--- page 1 ---
A;@sj)42/6a) "kn:lmsis U#b
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
Ministère de FEnseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche Scientifique Concours Nationaux dEntrée aux Cycles de Formation dIngénieurs Session 2017   '  ( s 
Jsin Zilyl al jELiajl
iuitdl ius Jal > Ji
20176,9
Concours Toutes Options Epreuve d Anglais Date : Jeudi 25 Mai 2017 Heure : 14 H Durée : 2 H   Barème Part I : 30, Part II : 30, Part III : 20
Nb pages 08
IMPORTANT : 1- Lépreuve € 'anglais comporte deux séries de feuilles Les énoncés sétalant sur pages que les candidats sont 'appelés à garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheet) s'étalant sur pages, lesquelles Doivent être rendues à la fin de Vépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2 - Il sera tenu compte de la présentation, (l'écriture au crayon n'étant pas permise)
Reading passage: 1-(CNN) As Qatar goes on a construction blitz ahead of the 2022 FIFA World Cup, much of the new infrastructure will be built by migrant workers. And given Qatar's track record, that's cause for major concern; a human rights group says.
2-A new report from Amnesty International finds that worker abuse is rife in Qatar's construction sector. The report, called "The Dark Side of Migration says some workers endure excessive and often dangerous working hours, squalid living conditions and have their payments withheld. One manager referred to workers as cattle. The report is based on interviews with 210 workers; 22 companies  and government officials. It includes investigations into companies subcontracted by major   organizations;   including the government's Qatar Foundation and South Korean group Hyundai Engineering & Construction. Amnesty said its  researchers   witnessed 11 men signing papers before government officials, falsely claiming they had received all payments and benefits to allow them to leave the country .
3 "It is simply inexcusable in one of the richest countries in the world that so many migrant workers are being ruthlessly   exploited, deprived of their pay and left struggling to survive;' Amnesty International Secretary General Salil Shetty said.
4-The report also questions the safety standards on construction sites; citing a report from Doha's main hospital that says more than 1,000 people were admitted to the trauma unit last year after falling from heights. Ten percent were disabled as a result, according to that report. Qatar's Ministry of Labor has not responded to CNN's request for comment.
5-Qatar has the highest   ratio of migrants  to citizens in the world,   according to UN  Special Rapporteur Francois Crepeau. About 94% of workers in Qatar are migrants; the United Nations' International Labour Organization said. Ihe Amnesty report follows a visit to Doha by Crepeau in Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2017 Epreuve d Anglais Page 1/4

--- page 2 ---
November to review worker standards His preliminary findings called for abolishing the kefala system; which ties workers to a single employer . Under kefala, workers cannot change jobs without permission from employers. Crepeau also called for a minimum wage for all workers.
6-In response t0 Amnesty's allegations; the director of the Human Rights Department at Qatar's Foreign Ministry said laws are in place to protect workers from mistreatment. "In the event that the Ministry of Labor becomes aware that the employer has not adhered to the contract then it will take all   legal means and measures against  the employer," the agency wrote to Amnesty . But Amnesty and other human rights groups have cited lack of enforcement as a key problem. This isn't the first time Qatar's working conditions for migrants have come under fire. After a report in the UK's Guardian newspaper that likened such conditions to "modern-day slavery," Qatar's Ministry of Labor issued a number of reforms in October. Those changes included doubling the number of labor site  inspectors;  increasing   the number of labor branch offices   and increasing the number of translators to ease communication with workers .
7-Amnesty said it recommends improving living standards; revising Qatar's labor laws; reforming the sponsorship system and removing the 'exit permit, permission from a sponsor to leave the country. Qatar's Ministry of Labor will set up a website for those seeking jobs in Qatar to "ensure that there will no longer be any discrepancy between the job the worker has signed up for in his country fiom that signed in Qatar, the Foreign Ministry said.
8-And the Qatar 2022 Supreme Committee; which oversees Qatar's World Cup plans; said Monday that it will release new "Workers' Welfare   Standards"  regarding recruitment;   pay, housing and repatriation policies for foreign workers by the end of this year. By Leone Lakhani and Holly Yan,CNN
Part A-
READING COMPREHENSION 30 marks I-Say what type of text it is and justify: narrative- informative- descriptive : ( 2 marks II- Complete the following sentences with reference to the text (5 marks) *1- Not only (a) but also (b) criticized  the bad working conditions for migrants in Qatar. *2- Amnesty International resorted to (a) and b) to write its new report. *3- It is inadmissible that in Qatar, one of foreign workers suffer from modern day slavery . Say whether the following statements are true or false and justify from the text marks) *1- Qatar has a known previous history with regard to work abuse ,according to human rights groups. *2- Amnesty   International stated that the Qatari Authorities have an idea about work abuse prevailing in the country . IV- With reference to the text; define the following in Your own words (4 marks) *1- Amnesty International *2- Kefala V- Mention 4 examples of abuse migrant workers are often victims of in Qatar (2 marks) VI- Cite reforms the government introduced to improve the conditions for workers (2mks) VII- What does Amnesty International put forward to incite Qatar to make things better for migrant workers ? Give recommendations   (2 marks)
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2017
Epreuve d Anglais
Page 2/4

--- page 3 ---
VIII- Select the correct option (2 marks) *1-The text conveys the idea that : *a" Despite some problems; Qatar remains the land of opportunity and dream for migrant workers. *b- FIFA World Cup will certainly contribute to improving foreign workers' working conditions in Qatar .  *C- Worker abuse is still commonplace in Qatar before World Cup, according to   Amnesty International. 2- The <workers' welfare standards" (paragraph 8) is: *9 a new government   law to impose   sanctions on foreign workers who violate the laws of immigration: #b- a committee in charge of supervising the building of stadiums   according to international standards . *C a program that sets the specifications and minimum requirements to protect migrant workers. IX- Pick out 8 words or expressions showing the bad plight of migrant workers in Qatar marks) X- Choose the 6 adjectives that best describe the migrants' working conditions in Qatar (3 marks) inhuman- hostile outraged- appalling - hazardous- appealing- helpless- merciless- awesome awful
Part B- LANGUAGE 30 marks I- Put the bracketed words in the right tense or form 10 marks Finland is planning to pay all of its citizens; [1] regard of income levels, 800 Euros (S1,187) per month as part of its plan for a national basic income. The Finnish Social [2] insure Institution (Kela) said that the payment [3] replace all other benefit packages. It [4] hope the plan [5] decrease unemployment rates, which were at high levels of 8.7 per cent in October. In Finland, [6]( take on low-paid temporary work can leave people worse off due to a decrease in welfare payments, as well as slow reinstatement of benefits once the job is over. The proposal is being prepared by Kela to [7] present in November   2017, and it is still unclear how the government one of the European Union's shakier [8] economic ) will afford the costs. If the population of 5.4 million Finns [9] give 800 Euros every month; it would cost the government 52.2 billion Euros a year. So far , the government [10] project a revenue of 49.1 billion Euros.
II- Complete with the appropriate word. The first two letters the word begins with and a synonym of the word are provided to help you ) 10 marks
Littered plastic is a [1] hu tremendous problem for the health of wildlife; as many animals ingest it thinking it is food and can have problems thereafter breathing and digesting : The non-profit Worldwatch Institute reports that at least 267 [2] sp..  breeds of marine wildlife are known to
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2017
Epreuve d Anglais
Page 3/4

--- page 4 ---
have suffered from entanglement Or ingestion of marine [3] wa. rubbish), most of which is [4] co..- consisting of ) of plastic; tens of thousands of whales, birds; seals and turtles die every year from contact with ocean-borne plastic bags . A recent European Commission study on the   [5] im effect of litter on North Sea wildlife found that some 90 percent of the birds [6] ex studied had plastic in their stomachs. Another  reason for [7] ba forbidding plastic bags is their fossil fuel burden. Plastic is not only made from petroleum producing it typically [8] re needs ) a lot of fossil-fuel-derived energy The fact that Americans throw away [9] ro about) 100 billion plastic grocery bags each year means we are drilling for and importing millions of barrels worth of oil and natural gas for a [10] co appropriate way to carry home a few groceries. 
III- Express differently starting as given on the answer sheet (keep the same meaning) 10 marks *1 - They managed to solve the problem. 1   *2 - He is too young to go to school.  *3- She did not have a camera that is why she did not take any pictures. *4- 1 prefer reading a book to watching television: *5- Did the company carry out the regular safety checks? *6- Iwas stupid to say that. *7- You find this price nowhere *8- We haven't seen each other for months. *9- Despite their convictions; scientists refuse to rely on preliminary theories. *10- Most today? s photocopiers are machines that organize files: Part C - WRITING 20 marks [- Find and correct the 5 mistakes in this paragraph (2.5 marks It may be to early to accurately assess how the deteriorating security situation will affect the sector tourism. Nevertheless, indicators point at an increased level of concern among tourists which intended to spend there holidays in Tunisia. II- Re-order to obtain a coherent paragraph ( 2.5 marks ): *à fundamental questions *b- NASA and its partners   . *G s0 we can answer some of the humanity' s *d- about life beyond Earth *& are working on the solutions every day
II- Essay 15 marks
Modern technological consumer products such as television; computers and portable phones are having negative effects on our health: Develop and give clear concrete examples. 15 lines
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2017
Epreuve d Anglais
Page 4/4

--- page 5 ---
République Tunisienne
Concours Nationaux d entrée aux cycles De Formation d Ingénieurs
Signature des surveillants
'Ministère de [enseignement supérieur et de la recherche scientifique Session Juin 2017. Concours Epreuve de
Toutes options.
Nom Ne rien Institution dorigine écrire
Prénom
Total des doubles feuilles remises
ici
Identifiant
Série :
Concours Nationaux dentrée aux cycles de Formation dIngénieurs Session Juin 2017 Concours Toutes options .
Ne rien
Total des doubles feuilles remises
écrire
Epreuve de
ANGLAIS (ANSWER SHEET)
ici
Part A- Reading Comprehension (30 marks) I What type of text is it? ( 2 marks Justification:
5
Complete the following sentences with reference to the text (5 marks) *1- Not only but also criticized the bad working conditions for migrants in Qatar. *2- Amnesty International resorted to and to write its new report.
8 *3- It is inadmissible that in Qatar, one of. foreign workers suffer from modern day slavery . Say if the statements are true or false and justify from the text marks) ; *1 - *2-
g IV- With reference to the text, define the following in Your own words: (Amarks) *1- Amnesty International
*2- Kefala
Concours (toutes options)- Session Juin 2017
Epreuve d Anglais
Page 1/4

--- page 6 ---


Ne rien écrire ici
VEMention 4 examples 0F abuse migrant workers are often victims of in Qatar (2marks) *1- *2- *3- *4-
NI- Cite 4 reforms the government introduced to improve the conditions for workers (2marks) 1 - *2- *3-
5 *4- VII- What does Amnesty   International put forward to incite Qatar to make things 8 better for migrant workers ? Give 4 recommendations (2 marks) *1 - *2 - *3- *4- MIII - Select the correct option (2 marks) ; *1-The text conveys the idea that  *2- The <workers' welfare standards   is: IX- Pick out 8 words or expressions showing the bad plight  of migrant workers in Qatar (4 marks) *1 - *5- g *2- *6 *3- *7- *4- *8-
K- Choose the 6adjectives that best describe the migrants working conditions in Qatar (3 marks) *1- *4- *2- *5- *3- *6-
Concours (toutes options) - Session Juin 2017
Epreuve d Anglais
Page 274

--- page 7 ---
Ne rien ccrire ici
Part B Language (30 marks) I - Put in the right tense or form (10 marks) 6
2
3
8
5
4
9
5
10
II- Fillin_the_blanks with_the appropriate words IOmarks hu 6 ex
; 2 sp 3 wa 4 co
7
ba
8
re
9
ro
5
im
10
co
; III- Express differently starting as given (keep the same meaning) (IOmarks) 1 - They succeeded 2- He is not 3- If she % 4-Fd rather 5- Were 6- I should not . 7 - Nowhere 8- Its been a long time since 9- Although. 10- Most today S photocopiers are machines.
Concours (toutes options)- Session Juin 2017
Epreuve d Anglais
Page 3 /4

--- page 8 ---
Ne rien écrire ici
Part C- Writing @0 marks) I- Find and correct the mistakes (2.5 marks) Mistake
Correction
1
2
3
:5
4
5
I- Re-order to obtain a coherent paragraph (write the corresponding letters) (2.Spts) 1-> 2 -> 3 > 5->
8 II- Essay (ISmarks)
;
g
Concours (toutes options) Session Juin 2017)
Epreuve d Anglais
Page 4 / 4