--- page 1 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Ministère de [Enscigncmcnt
292015224491 @Lala->lo4s 2abueeb Uim ys euel ihal isfulj 2007 i~
Supcricur; dc la Rcchenche Scicnüifiquc ct dc la Tcchnologic Concours nationaux d'cntrée auF cyclcs dc formation d'iugénicurs Scssion 2007
Concours Mathématiques et Physique; Physique et Chimie, Biologie et Géologie &Technologie Epreuve d'Anglais Date Jeudi 07 Juin 2007 Heure : 15 H Durée 2 H Nbre pages 08
Barème Part [ :30, Part II: 30, Part III: 20
st IMPORTANI: UNUUTHEQUE N 1. Lépreuve danglais   comporte deux séries de feuilles Sx 'garder nug Les énoncés sétalant sur pages que les candidats sont appelés à Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur 4 pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de Vépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2 Ilsera tenu compte de la présentation, (écriture au crayon n'étant pas permise) Making a business from solar home systems 1. SELCO-India is 0 private business which has designed and sold over 48,000 solar bome systems, powering electric lighting and small appliances for 220,000 people in Karnataka and other states ip South India Around 46% of households in India do not have mains electricity, and for many others the supply is unreliable. The use of photovoltaic (PV) solar-home-systems (SHS) can provide reliable power for lighting and low-power appliances, which brings great  practical   benefits. Smoky, dangerous kerosene light is avoided, people bave extended hours for work and study, and more opportunities for leisure and entertainment 2. Many programmes tbroughout the world have attempted to improve quality of life using SHS, but often thex have not led to long term use apd continuing markets. SELCO-India believes that the use of SHS will become widespread only if the system and after-sales service are of high quality; and if people want an SHS enough to pay for it. Wbat they provide is properly designed and  installed  systems,   excellent   on-tbe-spot service and links to organisations   which ofer appropriate and affordable finance.. 3. The core business of SELCO-India is the design and sale of photovoltaic (PV) solar-home-systems (SHS), principally for lighting; but also suitable for radios; cassette players and fans. A common system design supplics four 7W compact fluorcscent lights (CFLs) Electrical power is generated by a 35 Wp PV module, which is usually mountcd on the roof of a house. A 90 Ab (ampere-hour) lead-acid   battery   is used for   storage, 80 that thc system   works botb day and  night and throughout the year. The batteries uscd are designed to withstand significant discharge each day without rapid deterioration. (Cheaper car batteries cannot withstand this, and would become unusable within about six months) An electronic charge-controller protects the battery from charging or discharging too mucb, and enables tbe battery to be used for at least five years. However, systems are individually designed to mcet the needs (and budget) of each customer; and there are many variations wbich can be used. The installation of the system is carried out by SELCO technicians; and great emphasis is placed on appropriate sitipg of all components, and tidy wiring. Ope innovative idea from SELCO to make systems afordable is to mount a light in the corner of one rcom and remove bricks into other rooms, so that a single ligbt   provides   background illumination in three rooms. Apother feature which allows flexibility at low cost is having lights which can bc moved from one place to another, and installing the wiring and brackets for six lighting points in a four-light system 5. A core principle of SELCO-India is that poor people are able to afford modern energy services and that in the case of PV, an energy source wbich is regarded 88 expensive by the rich (in Concours Toutcs optons Scaslop Juln 2007 Eprcuve d'Anghle Pagc 1/4

--- page 2 ---
comparison with grid electricity) is actually cbeap for the poor (in comparison with ken lamps and dry cell batteries). The main problem is lack of initial capital.  SELCO doa providc credit or loans, but has built up working reletionships with local banks and microcr organisations ovcr many years. This has given finance organisations the confidence to prov credit for PV systems, and an understanding of tbe payment terms which different ownen rced. Some users work directly with the finance organisations, others work through self ! groups which gives additional security tha: a loan will be repaid. 6 Tbe immediate benefit to users is the provision of clean, good-quality light. and power for appliances. Good   light improves morale and  opportunities in ways which are difficoh quantify. Children are able to study, domestic tasks are done more safely and easily, and are increased opportunities for income generation..  7 There are significant cnvironmental benefits from the PV systems. Tbe immediate benefit is the use of smoky. dangerous kerosene lamps is minimiscd. [n addition; owners no longer USe dispose of dry-cell batteries. Families wbo use kerosene for lighting consume about 120 Litres :,So se 40 ^n9 ;stems installed avoid tbe emission of about 14,000 tonnes of CO2 equival per year.. 8. The operation of SELCO has provided valuable employment opportunities Tbe total numbe employees is about 170, of whom about 145 are in the 25 local service centres.. . Employment also been generated outside the company, including increascd sales of small electrical appliens like fans and radios. Mang of the benefits of the work of SELCO are particularly significant for women: they Oa spend more üime in the bome and therefore  appreciate the improved light and incod generation opportunities. Many women take the responsibility of paying for tbe SES, tbrough this, gain confidence in Ginancial management SHS owners were very pleased with tba systems; and clearly took pride in them Witbin SELCO, 21% of senice centre staff and 43% of head office staff are female, and tha sister-company has an entirely female workforce 9. SELCO provides an excellent replicable model for providing better energy services to p people, while at the same time developing a thriving business. Tbey bave shown tbat soh electricity can be successful and affordable, provided that a proper service and financing syste is ic place. Within India alone, 46% of bouseholds do not have grid electricity, and mapy mor have an unreliable supply, s0 the opportunities for similar enterprises are enormous. 10. SELCO aim to have installed 235,000 SHS by 2010, but also want to provide otber energ services One area whicb they would like to cover is the  provision of cheap. improve cookstoves: savings on wood might also be linked to payments for the SHS.
Dr Anne Whclaon. .!shder !wads. 200
PART I: Comprehension Questions 30 marks )
I _ Fill in the table ou the answer sheet with information from the passage describing the impact of the solar home systems on tbe given aspects.
II = Using information from the passage, supply the missing details in the table on the answer sheet.
III _ Under which conditions can the solar home systems be widely adopted?
IV_ Complete the following statement with information from the text:
Although the solar home systems (SHS) were primarily designed for ihev can also be used to operate home appiiances such as
V-State whetber the following are TRUE or FALSE. Justify your answers from tbe text:
9) Thanks to the new battery technology, Seico managed to design a solar home systel which is both standard ana affordable. Coucours Tovtas opdops Scsdon Juin 2007 Eprcuvc d' Apghais Psge 2

--- page 3 ---
b) The purchase of the solar home systems can be directly financed by Selco.
VI _ From 9 technical point of view, how do solar home systems compare with conventional power systems?
VII Explain in your own words: "SELCO provides an excellen, replicabie model for providing better energy services {0 poor people, while at the same time developing a thriving business (S 9)
VIL
What is tbe next step in Selco's strategy for providing an affordable energy service to the poor population?
IX - What do the following words (underlined in the text) refer to? a) they ( 8 2 b) this ( 8 3 c) which ( $ 5 ) d) them $ 8
Cr L ra<
)ner Jba
X - Find in the text words whicb have the closest meaning to:
bdr
1 to resist (83) 2 to install ($ 4) 3 most important ($ 5) 4 . prosperous ($ 9)
bcil
xx Hu ter
PART II: Language (30 marks
Or
1. Choose the right alternative
rT Yed
{1] (Although Whereas Since) many countries have a health care system based on socialized medicine; in the United States; it is based on private health insurance. [2] (However Indeed / As @ result ), unlike countries where taxes   help provide accessible health care for the masses, the U.S. system is privately owned [3] In addition Thus / Yet ) it is generally considered to be terribly expensive. So, though many of the most highly acclaimed physicians in the world practise [4] (a the / 0 medicine in the United States, these specialists are often inaccessible and unaffordable for [5] much / many little of the public. To pay for medical services; American health insurance companies charge fees [6] at / on / in ) a regular basis and are generally paid for by individuals or by their employer. These regular fees are known as premiums [7] Despite / Due to In addition to these premiums, most cliencs [8] must might had better) pay additional fees called deductibles. Today Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) are very common. One advantage of using an HMO is that it often picks up the entire cost for the patient, including prescriptions. [9] As a consequence /However /Furtkermore) many patients do not like the fact that their HMO determines which physicians, including specialists; they can use. Most Americans would prefer to have more freedom of choice in determining [10] ( which / that / whom) they can go to for their health care.
0:
2. Supply the correct tense and verb form The orange groves  of Valencia   could soon be powering Spanisb cars as a new technology is developed to turn the fruit's thick shiny peel into biofuel. In â region with 190,000 hectares [1] (cover) with oranges and lemons- many of which are 'eft to rot on the trees- citric-powered cars could reduce pollution while using 2 readily available source of energy, according to local officials.
f
Concoun Toutes optiows Sesdon Juin 2007
Eprcuve d'Anghls
Prge 3

--- page 4 ---
The presence of a Ford car factory, which [2] (settle) in tbe town of Almussafes a { years before, adds to the potential for the rgion. Oranges and lemons [3] (culttye along the east coast since at least the 18th century and are still the region's bige expon product. Valencia [4] (produce) Am tonnes of oranges a ycar; most of wi are squeezed into juice. Most of the 240,000 tonnes of waste [5] (sell) as animal & but it could be tumned into bioethanol. Each tonne of pulp could more than 6I1 average car's petrol tank, [6] (produce) 80 litres of fuel. Once the new juice ph planned for the region is completed; waste output [7] (rise) 1o 500,000 tonnes; a lq official said Valencia intends [8] (utilise) the technology being developed in anot orange-growing region of the world, Florida. If a distribution network around Valencia region were installed, locals [9] (pay) about 40% less per litre than what t [10] (pay) currently for petrol.
3. Use the right form of the word given between parentheses
What is [1] (create)? To many pecple, a creative person is anyone who has g imagination or an [2] (invent) mind. Io others, it is only someone who is [3] (arti gifted such as a painter; writer or architect. This term has been defined as that whi brings into existence, causes or produces new and effective ideas or ways of doi things. According to this definition; a person who is considered creative could inclu someone from almost any walk of life. One characteristic many psychologists have agreed upon as being common to creati types is an insatiable curiosity . This [4] (end) desire to know more, experience mo and discover more seems to apply to all creative types. That is the [5] (physics) w discovered penicillin or the inventor of a microchip or of a more efficient way to p bills over the phone, can be thought of as creative; and perhaps just as creative Picasso or Mozart.
4. While keeping the same meaning; rewrite the following sentences as indicated on tb( answer sbeets
1 . Technology is changing our lives. 2 It is unnecessary to carry out this experiment for the time being: 3 The conventional batteries do not last as long as the nanotechnological ones do. 4 "We will   change the   assembly line we installed three  years   ago the mana promised. 5 The findings of our research should not be published before they are fully endorsed the research team
PART III: Translation & Writing (20 marks)
A Translate the following into English : ( 5 marks )
Depuis le 19ème siècle, la consommation d'énergie n'a cessé de croître dune fa exponentielle. Il a été consommé dans le monde autant dénergie en 2005 qu' e 1950 et 1960 Les  efforts   visent   actuellement à promouvoir  les  activités qui diffuseront plus de produits toxiques et permettront en même temps; aux plus pau' de satisfaire leurs besoins fondamentaux dans ce domaine.
B - Write about the following topic in approrimately 15 lines (15 marks )
Some people claim that advances in science and technology have made our world better and safer. To what extent is this true, according to you?
Concours Touts Opdons Sadon Jpin 2007
Eprcuve d'Angh
 `

--- page 5 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs
Signature des survcillants
MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT Supérieur, de la Recberche Scientifique et de La Technologie Session
Concours
Epreuve de
écife [ ldl Nom IeC Ilen Institution d'origine
Prénoms
Total des doubles feuilles remises
Identifiant
Série
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs
Total des doubles fcuilles remises
80l éaie[ Session .Juin 2007 Concours Toutes options. Ie5 Ien Epreuve de ANGLAIS   (ANSWER SHEET). PART I :
Health
8 Environment A 0 Life-style 2 Women's living 2 conditions Organization location Field of  activity Targeled social Size of grouP workforcc
Selco
III - a)
b)
IV - Although the solar home systems (SHS) were primarily designed for they can also be used to operate home appliances such as
Concours Toules options Session Juin 2007
Epreuve d'Anglais
Pege 1/4

--- page 6 ---
Nle Flen écrire Icg
V _
9) [
b) [
VI -
3 B VII - # 8 [X- %) b) c) d) X 1. 2 3.
Coocoun Tousds optiod Scssio Juin 2007
Eprauvc GAnchis
Pre 2/4

--- page 7 ---
Mle jen écrfre Icf
PART II :
6
3
8
H 5 2. B 4 2 5 3.
10
6
8
10
5
1. Our lives
2.  Tbis experiment_
3. The nanotecbnological batteries last
4. The manager promised that
5. Not until they are fully endorsed by the reseerch team_
Concours Toud qpian _ Sasioa Juàm 2007
Epcuvc #Ancli
Pe 3/4

--- page 8 ---
%
PART III - A ~ Translation:
B Writing:
1 8 ;
Concours Toutes options - Session Juin 2007
Epreuve dAnglais
Page 4/4