--- page 1 ---
429142863) Bk:xs lM>ÿs {Lzb
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
Ministère de /Easeignement Supérieur et de {a Recherche Scientifique Concours Nationaux dEntrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs Session 2018
Jsil Gibji alblii
Quasil igUl>d
Concours Toutes Options Epreuve &'Anglais Date Jeudi 31 Mai 2018 Heure 13 K Durée 2 H
20186"
Nb pages 08
Barème Part I 30, Part II 30, Part III 20 WPORTANT : Lépreuve danglais comporte deux séries de feuilles Les énoncés $'étalant sur 4 pages que les candidats sont appelés garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheet) s'étalant sur 4 pages; lesquelles Doivent être rendues à la fin de lépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2- Ilsera tenu compte de la présentation; (lécriture au crayon n'étant pas permise) Reading passage: 1- Brazil has seen more forest fires in September than in any single month since records began, and authorities have warned that 2018 could surpass the worst year on record if action is not taken soon. 2 - Experts say that the blazes are almost exclusively due to human activity; and they attribute the uptick to the expansion of agriculture and reduction of oversight and surveillance.  Lower than average rainfall in this year' dry season is also an exacerbating factor 3- The National Institute of Space Research (INPE) has detected 106,000 fires destroying natural vegetation so far this_month the highest number in a single month since records began in 1998, said Alberto Setzer, coordinator of INPEs fire monitoring satellite. "It is fundamental to understand that these are not natural fires. They are manmade," Setzer said. 4- Fires are commonly used during Brazils dry period to deforest land and clear it for raising cattle or other agricultural or extraction purposes. The total number of blazes since 1 January was 196,000, and Setzer   expressed concern that with the dry season continuing in Brazil' s Amazon- 2018 could surpass   the worst year on record, 2004, when   there were  270,000 fires . According to INPE;, deforestation has risen  continuously since 2012,  when new forest code that gave amnesty   to deforesters was introduced. The last available data for 2016 showed a 29% rise since the previous year 5- Bumning is illegal and carries heavy fines; but fire is often used to clear land for pasture or crops and hunting or results from land conflicts. Deforestation has risen continuously since 2012, the INPE says. 6- The_problem was compounded, Setzer said, by a lack of oversight and marpower to contain the blazes. "When there is a reduction in checks and surveillance, we see an increase in the number of
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2018
Epreuve d' Anglais
Page 1/4

--- page 2 ---
fires, he said. The government   of   President   Michel Temer has been   heavily criticized by environmentalists for making deep cuts to the country' s environmental budget; which have affected the ability of Brazil's environmental police to perform inspections and raids 7- In September, after month-long battle; firefighters gave up on fire in Tocantins State Park; believed to have been lit by local fishermen and carried by strong winds during an intense dry period. An area three times the size of Sao Paolo was destroyed, according to local media 8- "The Temer government's policies signal for those in the countryside that the doors are open for more deforestation and more fires; said Cristiane Mazzetti, Brazilian Greenpeace campaigner; listing a series of measures by the Temer government including reducing protected Amazon forest areas and giving amnesty to land grabbers_ 9- Critics say Temer is acting at the behest of powerful ranching and mining interests inside congress. Recently; the goverment was highly criticized for opening up a vast Amazon reserve for international mining; a decree that was later revoked. 10- The states most affected by fires this year have been in the Amazon; increasingly targeted by ranchers and miners with the Amazon biome accounting for 49% of the burnings. The Amazonian state of Parà was the worst affected, with a 229% increase in fires from last year. It is home to the two hardest hit municipalities; Saô Félix de Xingu and Altamira, home of Brazil's controversial  Belo Monte dam project. September 2017 Ihe Guardian Part A - READING COMPREHENSION 30 marks I-Say what type of text it is and justify: ( 1.Smark Instructive- argumentative -narrative- informative- descriptive II- Select the statement that best relates to the text: mark) *1- Forest fires in Brazil behind warming of the earth and climate change *2-Brazilian forests going up in flames and the worst is yet to come. *3- Brazilian authorities striving in vain to combat forest fires spreading to cities: III- Apart from the government responsibility, Brazilians also contribute to forest fires. Mention 5 factors that account for the rising number of these fires: (Smarks) IV- Complete the paragraph with reference to the text (4 marks) Forest fires are not always man-made as they might break out on any given day during In fact, huge areas of the Amazon forest are .2 by raging fires. Brazilian firefighters face tremendous difficulties in 3 that may require .4 V- Say whether the following statements are true or false and justify from the text: (4.Smarks) 1- Before 1998, there were no official figures about forest fires in Brazil.
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2018
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 2/4

--- page 3 ---
2- Deforestation has kept increasing since 2012 due to excessive heat. 3- The decree to open up an Amazon reserve for international   mining was passed unanimously . VI- Choose the correct alternative: (2marks) 1- If action is not taken at once, a - Brazil will witness even more devastating fires b - mining companies will destroy the Amazon forest C- aid from International Organizations such as Greenpeace will be needed 2- Environmentalists charge that: 2 - The forest fires have been intensified by the careless attitudes of people b- The disaster has been fueled by misguided govemment policies C- Greenpeace was prevented from stepping in to save the Amazon forest VII - Define in your own words: (2marks) 1-a fire monitoring satellite (83) 2 - a Greenpeace campaigner ($8)
VIII - Answer the following questions: (3 marks) 1-In what way is the Brazilian goverment responsible for this alarming situation? 2- Deforesters are of different walks of life. According to the text; who can they be? IX- What do the underlined words in the text refer to? (3 marks) 1- this month (83) 2- the problem ($6) 3- those (88) X- Find words in the text (from paragraph 6 till the end) having approximately the same meaning as: (4 marks) 1- reductions 2- actions 3- pardon 4- arguable Part B- LANGUAGE 30 marks
1- Put the bracketed words in the right tense or form: 10 marks Three years ago, Sunil Kumar [1] (be) a little [2] (energy) boy of 13 who [3] (know) among his friends as a [4] (talent) athlete. Today; his eyes   [5] (constantl burn) he can barely run a few yards before he has to catch his   [6] (breathe), [7] (cough) violently . Kumar [8] (be) sick since last December when 40 tons of [9] (die) methyl gas [10] (leak) from Union Carbide's pesticide plant into the air over the central Indian city of Bhopal. II- Complete with the appropriate word: The first two letters the word begins with and a synonym of the word are provided to help you ) 10 marks As people spend more time on the web and hackers become more sophisticated, the dangers of storing personal information on computers are [1] gr. (= increasing by the day , security
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2018
Epreuve dAnglais
Page 3/4

--- page 4 ---
experts say . There are some [2] 0b... evident) safeguards such as never [3]aL  (=permitting )  your computer to store your passwords. But even that is no guarantee of security. When you type in password, it is stored in Random Access Memory (RAM); where it is held [4] te.. (=momentarily) until other   [5] da (=information ) overwrites it Or the computer is [6] sw turned off:. But every so often; the computer copies the contents of its RAM onto hard disk, where it is easy [7] vi... (=prey) for a hacker who can read it directly or [8]   de make worm to email it back The longer sensitive information stays in RAM, the more [9] li (= probable) it is to be copied onto the disk; where it stays until it is overwritten- which might not [10] oc (=happen) for years. III- Express differently starting as given on the answer sheet:(keep the same meaning)(1Cmarks) 1- "Where did you go last night?? , my dad asked. 2- The government is seeking a suitable solution to this problem. 3- Because of the heavy rain; we didn't go out. 4- They seldom caught the bus. 5- Perhaps the daughter heard this story from her mom. 6- We live in an area known for its earthquakes that threaten lives. 7-Fve never read such a good thriller in my life! 8- If you don't tell me what happened, I won't be able to help 7 you. 9- Iregret not having told her the truth. 10- Despite their high precision; computers still show vulnerability in front of hackers.
Part € - WRITING 20 marks I- Each sentence includes 2 mistakes. Find them and correct them: marks ) 1- Last year; the disease spread threw out the hole world. 2- She gave out her job as a nurse when her eldest son felled sick. II- Re-order to obtain a coherent paragraph: ( 3 marks *a- However, the computer has brought with it many benefits *b- entering the job market today. *c- Decades ago, some experts predicted that computers and automation *d- and expanded opportunities, *e- particularly for people *f- would cause mass layoffs and unemployment. III - Essay: ( 15 marks Do you think that modern Man; armed with science and technology; has the power to face natural hazards such as earthquakes, floods and forest fires effectively? Write a 15-line essay where you state your opinion with solid arguments
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2018
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 4/4