--- page 1 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Ministcre de ('Enscignement Supérieur ct de la Rechcrche Scicntilique
4834142/62U1 Ubkyigzs gÆü#] Jsin Yibsli 21 Usuji unni Dlllyji 201169'
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs Session 2011
Concours Toutes Options Epreuve d Anglais
Date : Lundi 13 Juin 2011
Heure : 15 H
Durée : 2 H Nbre pages 08
Barème : Part I : 30, Part II : 30, Part III : 20
WSTTUT PRer<, EEMTHEQUE IMPORTANT (Fudes bmgavnu Kn 1 L'épreuve &anglais comporte deux séries de feuilles Les énoncés s' étalent sur 4 pages que les candidats sont appelés à garder ; Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheet) s'étalent sur 4 pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de lépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2. Il sera tenu compte de la présentation; (lécriture au crayon n'étant pas permise) 1-According to Time magazine, Mark   Zuckerberg is 2010's Man of the Year. And even though we're only a year into it, he's a fair bet to pick up Man of the Decade as well. Zuckerberg's prominence comes not from having donated $100 million a tiny fraction of his fortune to the New Jersey school system; nor from having his student misadya ntures turned into the year's hit movie, The Social Network. It's not even because of Faceboo} $ astonishing growth: having passed the 500 million member mark in July; it's thought to have notched up another 100 million already .
2-No, the reason the 26-year-old CEO (Chief Executive Officer) matters is because he's not just entertaining those people: he's building them their own; self-contained World Wide Web. There's now so much to do within Facebook that its fans need never leave. 'They can play games, read news stories; browse pop stars' fan pages, even do some shopping using Facebook credits. This year; Facebook has launched Places; a mobile application that lets you share your location using on your phone; Questions, which lets your friends and friends of friends answer   your   queries; and   Messages; an inbox combining  mcssages   from within Facebook with emails, text mcssages and instant messages   from outside. Essentially , Facebook could replace your email.
3-While Google remains the destination of choice for those who know what they' rC looking for , Facebook has taken over for those who want to while away their time (to the tune of a staggering 700 billion minutes a month). But there's an important difference Google wants the web t0 be as open as possible, so its searches can encompass the entirety of the world's data.
4-But just as Apple rigidly controls thc experiencc of iPhone and iPad owners, vetting and approving every single program on its App Store; so Facebook ensures that everything within its walls is strictly supervised. Even when users do venture out into the wider web, they are increasingly taking the site with them. If you Jog in to a website using Facebook Connect, it's like having your fricnds thcre; too: you can read their comments; and see which stories or videos they "Jiked"
Concours Toutes Options
Epreuve d' Anglais
Page 1/4

--- page 2 ---
5-Of course, the kind of power this gives Zuckerberg can be worrying; Facebook's shifting privacy settings are of special cause for concern: although they have been simplified, many users are still unaware of how much of their lives they are making public; and how much they are keeping to themselves.
6-Facebook's critics also warn of the danger of having s0 much content stored in a website that is outside your control.  While it's highly unlikely that the_company would close your account or delete your messages or pictures   without your permission; there are plenty of people who feel nervous about entrusting so much of their online lives to one firm.
7-For others, the whole Facebook experience is too sanitised. "I was   never   interested in Facebook or Myspace; because the environment seemed too top-down [and] mediated," said William Gibson; the novelist who came up with the concept of cyberspace. "They feel like malls to me.
8-But for every Gibson; there are millions upon millions who just love those malls. Because Facebook is such a controlled environment; it is also despite the occasional scare stories ~ a very safe one. 'That's because its in its interest to keep it that way.
9-Like Google, Facebook is hard to compete with; because it meets its users' needs so well that there is little reason even to try to compete. That's not to say that Facebook will never be toppled: When power shifts among the tech giants; it tends to shift quickly; just as it did when Facebook usurped Myspace. Nothing lasts for ever but Facebook's position is s0 strong that it's hard to bet against Zuckerberg dominating the intemet for years to come.
By Shane Richmond 16 Dec 2010
PARTONE
BEADING COMPREHENSION 3Omarks)
I-Select the most suitable title for the passage (Imark)
1- Facebook: too rubbish to last.
2-Facebook: a new tool for political activism. 3-The public opinion is being manipulated by Facebook. 4-Facebook: a more and more appealing and flourishing social network.
II-Say briefly, using your own words, why Zuckerberg has been made Man of the Year (3marks)
ILI-AlI these statements are true. Find the appropriate   justifications from the passage (4marks)
1-Facebook enabled Zuckerberg to become a very wealthy man 2-The film relating Zuckerberg's misadventures as a student knew a striking success.
3-Google is undoubtedly the most favourite search engine for internet users.
4-Facebook users needn't worry about the safety of their personal data.
Concours Toutes Options
Epreuve dAnglais
Page 2/4

--- page 3 ---
IV-Complete the table on the answer sheet with refcrence to the passage (4,Smarks)
V-Mention the criticism(s) directed to Facebook (3marks)
VI-Complete the following sentence with reference to the text. (3,5marks) Apart from the usual services provided by facebook such as: .(1) , .(2) , .(3). and .(4) , new applications have recently been introduced namely: .(5) , 4(6) and .(7).
VII-Focus on the last paragraph of the passage and paraphrase the writer's opinion about Facebook and its future (3marks)
VIII-What do the underlined words in the text refer to?(Amarks)
1-the company(f6 line2); 2- they(87 line3); 3- one($8 line2); 4- did(S9line3)
IX-Look for the corresponding antonyms (4marks)
1- unimportance or insignificance ($ 1) 2 - huge or enormous (81)
3- insignificant or unimpressive (83) 4- conscious or alert (85) PART TWO LANGUAGE (30marks)
I- Choose the right alternative: (1Omarks)
What would you (1) (betterl ratherl like) have- a superfast data connection (2) (in/ atl on) your cellphone; or a reliable GPS signal to pinpoint your location? If a plan to install a network of base stations for the new 4G mobile wireless protocol goes ahead, it may mean you can have one   (3) (howeverl butl whereas) not the other. (4)  (Sincel Hencey Furthermore,) GPS satellites transmit their navigation signals in the range 1559 to 1610 megahertz. Telecoms firm Light Squared of Reston; Virginia has long communicated with (5) (theirl theirs/ its) satellites using low-power signals in the adjacent frequency band, from 1525 to 1559 MHz; part of the "L band"' . (6) (Because ofl Despitel Although) the closeness of the frequencies, Satnav   receivers have SO far   operated without (7) (no/ nonel any) interference problems. (8) (Whilel Besides   Yet,) in January, the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) gave preliminary approval to (9) (a/ thel 0) plan by Light Squared to build 40,000 new 4G base stations on the ground.  These stations would broadcast (10) (much/ more/ very) stronger signals in the 1525 to 1559 MHz range to link to cellphones
II Supply the correct tense and verb form: (IOmarks)
The advancements in technology over the past century (1) (be) truly amazing; and when one compares modern-day conveniences with what (2) (be) available to previous generations; it is hard (3) (imagine) how life was possible without them: Certainly, the invention of television; cellular telephones, and supersonic aircraft (4) (represent) incredible human ingenuity; and the ability to travel in space leaves one in terror, but who could (5) (imagine) the almost infinite capacity of a computer 20 years ago? The written word (6) (contain) in hundreds of volumes, mathematical  and scientific data of every university on earth and information on every subject known to man, ae now all contained in a desk-sized box. Calculations can (7
Concours Toutes Options
Epreuve dAnglais
Page 3/4

--- page 4 ---
(make) in an instant, and statistical information of every kind can be obtained with 9a few clicks of the mouse_ The implications of this (8) (amaze) technology for students at all levels are far reaching: Currently, trips to the library and even some live presentations (9) (become) obsolete; as students research and discover their own information from their own personal computer. But so far this (10) (become) even more evident with thc invcntion of the lap-top computer.
III - Use the right form of the bracketed words: (Smarks)
A video camera that can see through people and objects could soon become reality thanks to a new system developed by a team from Missouri University of Science and Technology. In a video, you can see the current device in action as it images a pair of scissors (1) (hide) inside a plastic case. Its (2) (current) made up of two parts: a transmitter that sends out microwave signals and a (3) (collcct) at the other end that detects the scattered field from an object placed in between them. The signal is then transmitted to a laptop that displays images of the object in real time; picking up up t0 30 images per second at different (4) (deep). Although existing imaging technologies; like full-body scanners at airports; can produce similar results, this device is (5) (hand) and delivers high-resolution images in real time.
IV_ While keeping the same meaning, rewrite the following sentences as indicated on the answer sheets (Smarks)
I-The U.S. space shuttle Discovery and its crew ended a mission that lasted 13 days. 2- Scientists in Japan found that highly radioactive water has leaked out of a reactor. 3- "Last year we tried to go out on a high note, and Discovery has done that, said Dr Hu. 4- Signals from GPS satellitcs now help you to call your mother, power your home; and even land your plane. 5- Japan is a very developed country, however; it failed t0 minimize the earthquake's and Tsunami' s casualties .
PART THREE WRITING (20 marks) TASK 1 (2.Smarks) There are five mistakes in the following paragraph (underline and correct them in the provided space on the answer sheet)
People commute in cars, buses, planes and trains to work and to other activities on regular bases; However; the actual necessity to physically change location in order to accomplish such tasks have recently been challenging duc to concerns for energy conservation:
TASK II (2.Smarks) Rearrange the following parts to get a coherent paragraph
Around 32 per cent of employers report difficulty Over 5 million people are employed and this figure is predicted to rise. in administration; business and office work, in recruiting business and administration staff;
: TASK ESSAY (ISmarks) To what extent does the social networking Facebook influence young people's lives? Write a 1S-line essay in which you support your opinion with concrete examples. Concours Toutes Options Epreuve dAnglais Page 4/4

--- page 5 ---
Signature des surveillants
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Concours Nationaux dentrée aux cycles de MINISTERE DE Formation d'Ingénieurs L'ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR et de la Recherche Scientifique
Session
Juin 2011
Concours
Toutes options
h Epreuve de mabi Nvm Ip Institution d'origine Identifiant:
Prénom
Total des doubles fcuilles remises
Série:
M Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation 1'Ingénicurs Total des doubles J6n Icuilles remises Ja Session Juin 20/1 Concours Toutes options. 8 Fprcuve de ANGLAIs (ÀNSWER SHEET) PARIONE: READING COMPREHENSION (30 marks2 I-Select the most suitable title for the passage (Imark)
II-Say briefly, using your own words, why Zuckerberg has been madc Man of the Year (3marks)
1l III-All the statements are true. Find the appropriate justifications from the passage. (Amarks) 1 - 2 - 48 3- 4 - IV-Complete thc following sentence with reference to the text. (3,5marks) 2 Apart from the usual services provided by facebook such as: (2) (3) and( 8 new applications have recently been introduced namely: (5) and
Page 1/4
Concours toutes options- Session Juin 2011
Epreuve d'Anglais

--- page 6 ---
NE RIEN ECRIRE ICI
V- 1-
2 -
3-
VI-Complete the following Éable with reference to the _passage ((,Smarks) Facebook Google
Similaritics
1 Differences VII - 18 ! 2 - 8 4 Ix- 2- 3-
session Juin '2011
Exteuve &
Page 2/4

--- page 7 ---
NE RIEN ECRIRE ICI
PART TWO 
LANGUAGE (3Omarks)
6
2
7
3
8
4
9
5
10
1 2 7 3 8 4 9 18 5 10 3 2 4 2 5 8 IV_ While keeping the same meaning; rewrite the following sentences @s indiceted on the answer sheet (Smarks) 1-Tbe U.S. space shuttle Discovery and its crew ended 2-Highly radioactive water 3-Dr Hu said that 4-Not only 5-Despite its
{2wla:
Session juin 2011
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 34

--- page 8 ---
NE RIEN ECRIRE ICI
PART IHREE TASK 1 (2.Smarks)
WRITING (2Omarks)
People commute in cars, buses, planes 9nd brains to work and {o other activitics on 3 regular . bascs. howcvcr, the actual necessity t0 physicly change Jocation in order to accomplish such tasks have recenlly been challenging due to concerns for energy conservation.
39
5i
1 TASK il (Z.Smarks) 1 TASK ESSAY (ISmarks) 78 2 8
2
3
5
Concours toutes qtions- Session Juin 2011
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 4/4