--- page 1 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Ministère de ['Enseignement Superieur
4 53yi52sj) "lk:lgsts jiybji @jliji Bhil iusj>u 2005 :w
Concours nationaux d'entrée aux cycles de formation d'ingénieurs Session 2005
Concours Mathématiques et Physique, Physique et Chimie, Idos Inson : Biologie et Géologie & Technologie Epreuve danglais 6202c3 an; iblio '986€ Date Lundi 13 juin 2005 Heure 15 H Durée : 2 H Nbre de pages 08 Qur
Barème Part I :30, Part II: 30, Part III: 20
MPORTANI: MastiTuT caeparatoire , 1. L'épreuve danglais comporte deux séries de feuilles QHBLOTHEQUE) Les énoncés s'étalant sur pages que les candidats sont 'appelés à garder 78*7is5 SN Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de lépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2. Il sera tenu compte de la présentation (écriture au crayon n'étant pas permise) Reading passage Only the hardier forms of river life thrive in the salt-tainted tidal water of the River Thames. Its dirty, brown and brackish, but to Tony Rachwal its 9 reservoir of limitless potentiaL   Next month his company, Thames Water, bopes to win permission to build Northern Europe's first large-scale desalination plant, which removes salt (among other things) from water, on the banks of the river few miles east of central London The idea is to turn these wretched waters where river mingles with ocean into sparkling drinking water for 900,000 London residents. We have this huge resource op our doorstep" says Rachwal the R&D director. ~And now we have the technology to use it."
2
Why does rainy London need S360 million plant that taps ocean water? London, it seems;, isn't quite rainy enough per capita, its drier than Madrid or IstanbuL As the city erpands, water usage is rising and shortages threaten: Mexico City, which has million more residents than i did 20 years ago, has & similar problem: the city is sinking into the ground as it drains its underground aquifers. For their part, Americans are flocking to sunbelt communities and building golf courses and swimming pools. Climate change is only expected to make things worse.
3.
The oceans, on the other hand hold 95 percent of the world'$ water, and almost balf of the global population liveswithin 100 kilometers of the sboreline "There just aren't enough reserves of water" says  Pierre-François Moizan of Dégrémont; which runs many big desalination projects, ~and seawater is ahways available "
Of course, its been possible to treat seawater on an industrial scale for 40 years The problem with many of the older plants, though, is that tbey work by distilling the water and leaving behind the salt residue This process requires copious amounts of heat
Coacoun Natouux-Sasion 2005
Eprcuve d'Apghis
Prgc 1/4

--- page 2 ---
encrgy and is too expensive for all but the richest and thirstiest Middle East nations Growing sbortages bave created incentives to develop cheaper technologies. Today's favored method, "reverse osmosis; involves pumping salt water through polymer strips. Microscopic pores let water pass but trap the salt.
5.
Competition; economies of scale and better polymers have balved the cost of producing gleoss of salt-frce Water in the last 10 years: And priccs are still falling New plants are bcginning to spring up in the most unlikely of placcs, from damp England to Floride Spain und Sipgapore Forccasters reckon China'$ capacity could rise fourfokd by 2015. By building plants close to power stations opcrators can reap big gains in efficiency. A ncW dcsalimation plapt in Tamp Bey, Floride, the Jargest of its_kind in the Wester hcmisphere, takes coolant water from & nearby power station and turns it into 25 million gallons of drinking water 8 day. Global capacity for dcsalination is expected to double in the next dccade, say Global Water Intelligence, British-based research company. 6. Water   policies is also driving adoption of the technology- Spain last year ditched smbitious plants to divert the River Ebro to drought-prone plains of the south and opted instead to build several Dew desalination plants. In mapy   countries, the peed for dependable fow of fresh water has bccome an urgent political issue
Seawater elone isn't going t0 solve the world's water problems; bowever; Desalination is still cxpensive, end it can't do mucb for, say, Central Asia or otber inland regions: cbeaper alternative would be to recycle more wastewater filtering water from the toilet back into the tap. Altbough the technology is inexpensive; most people sren't keen on the ides: Whats needed say experts, is to persuade consumers to regard water 2s scarce commodity in need of conservation For the moment; fitering weter is about tbe best solution tcchnology bas bcen able to provide
Newsweek March 7,2005
PART I: Comprehension Questions 30 marks
1 - Complete the table on tbe answer shect with the eppropriate information from the tert
 - State whether the following are TRUE or FALSE. Justify your answers.
a) The older desalination method is affordable by both rich and poor countries alike b) The need for more drinking water in London has led to the search for other means to process river and ocean waters.
IDI - Mention tbrce main reasons for the shorteges of water reserves world-wide
IV What makes sea water desalination possible solution to water sbortages?
V What are tbe prospects for desalination plants tbroughout the world
VI - Complete tbe statement with information from the text
A glass of salt-free water costs half as much as it used to thanks to
Coucours Natiounux- Scssion 2005
Eprcuve d'Anchls
Prgc 2/4

--- page 3 ---
VII Explain te following statemept:
New plants are beginning to spring up in the most unlikely of places:"
VIII Tbe writer scems to be skeptical about the use of desalination 9s solution to water shortages. Mention two of the argumcnts be provides ugainst desalination
Choose the appropriste statemcnt which bcst cxpresses the main idea of the text: 0) Recycling wastewater b)   Filtering water from the toilet back into the tap c) Desalinating for fresh water d) New ways of removing salt firom water
X-Find in tbe passage words wbich have the closcst mcaning to:
1 mix ($ 1) 2. moving in large numbers (82) 3. obtain 8 5) 4 . Iare ($
XI- What do tbe following words refer to
it (82) 8 wbich (83) its kind ($5) the idea ($
PART II: Language 30 marks
1. Choose the right alternative
It is astounding to compare the medical technology of today with [1] (this, that, those, one) of  1990. [2] (Then, Ago, Lately,   Before,)  doctors came to one's bouse and determined   one's illness, using [3] ( few; less, little, muck) instruments and their senses. Today, people live 30 years [4] (long, longest longer, as long) on average than their great grandparents did at the beginning of the 20* century; Many factors in public bealth and medical discovery contributed [5] (for, t, at in) this, but in no other area [6](during, since, before, for) the industrial revolution has engineering started fiom such limited base and produced such an invaluable; complex and startling number of innovations. [7] (Despite, However, Although, But) many advances were underway early in the century; health technologies really began to blossom in the last balf; when engineering became [8]   (increasing, increased increase;increasinghy)  interdisciplinary, and the human body was more fully recognized as a complex system of electrical fields, fluids and biomechanics and motion- ideal [9] (for, to, abous in) an engineer' $ approach to many of its  problems. There are currently some 32,000 bioengineers [I0] (work, working, worked, workers in various areas of health technology .
Coucoun NadouuI- Scson 2005
Eprrrve d Asgbb
Pegc J4

--- page 4 ---
2. Supply the correct tense and verb form
Over many years; hundreds of pesticides and other chemicals [1] (run) into rivers and accumulated in the soil. This, at present, [2] (threaten) the animal species that feed on plants and other animals. Furthermore, industrial gases [3] (trap) in the atmosphere [4] (pollute) the air and cause global warming;  [5] (change) the environment of species. Habitat destruction endangers the greatest number of species: Because people [6] (necd) food and shelter, the environments of many species [7] (eliminate) or reduced. Currently; people; in many places; [8] (turn) forests into farmland.  Since the early 1990's, some 12 million hectares of tropical forests [9] (clear) every year. At this rate within 40 years all remaining tropical forests [10] (disappcar)
3. Choose the right form of the word between brackets
Many scientists now say that global climate change is underway due [1] (primary)  to the buring of fossil fuels  and the resulting build-up of carbon dioxide and other 'greenhouse gases" in the atmosphere. Climate changes [2] (threat). human health and well-being because they cause more severe stons and droughts; rising sca levels, increased spread of [3] (infection). _ diseases; and other adverse effects. As the debate unfolds over a stronger international treaty to curtail  greenbouse gas [4] (emit).~ there is much that individual people can do in their homes and workplaces to reduce their contribution to global   [5] (warm) The good news is that many of these actions can save money as well as protect our environment
4. Rewrite the following sentences keeping the same mcaning; Begin each sentence as indicated on the answer sheet:
1 . It is advisable for most fims to adopt stricter environmental rules 2. You'll bave to study hard if you want to become an engineer Human cloning is being experimented with although opponents criticize it fiercely 4  Sami was not hurt because he was wearing a seat belt 5. People say Chinese food is the best in the world
PART III: Translation & Writing (20 marks) A Translate the following sentence into Epglisb (5 marks )
De nouvelles technologies sont en train dêtre développées par des experts en matière de conservation et de gestion de ressources hydrauliques même dans les pays qui sont rarement toucbés par la sécheresse
B - Write about the following topic in about 15 lincs ( 15 marks ) In this cyber age; the increasing use of Information Technology has an impact on everything including homes. Describe what your ideal bome would look like, using  the following prompts location; achitecture, indoor appliances and fumniture services provided etc.)
Concours Natomau- Scsiou 2085
Epreuve d'Asdab
Pssc

--- page 5 ---
=wi4i2sooj)
Concours Nationaux d'Entréc aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs
Signatur des nvcillants
@Uf#lMsÿs REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR Session
Coucours
Epreuve de
éâife/ ic Nom Ner ,/en Institution d'origine
Prénoms
Total dcs doubles fcuilla rmiscs
Identifiant
Série
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénicurs Tolul des douhlcs Icuilles (emnisc< gc1) Jéae [ Session Juin 2005 Concours Toutes options Narlen ( Eprcuve dc ANGLAIS (ANSWER SHEET) PART I :
desalination method process
advantages
drawbacks
Previous one
XXXXXXXXXX
5 5? New one 299 59 B b) 2
XXXXXXXXXXXX
IV
V

--- page 6 ---
Ne rien écrire ici
VI- A glass of salt-free water costs half as much as it used to thanks to
H XX - B X - E 2. 3 ; XI - a) b).

--- page 7 ---
Mle fien écrire ici
PART II :
3 78 2 ;
10
10
Most firms .
You won't.
3. Despite
If Sami had not been wearing his seat belt; he
5. Chinese food

--- page 8 ---
Re Rien &ere lez
% PART III Translation: 1 B Writing: 2 1