--- page 1 ---
~ary ~J[cre de IEnseignement Supeneur
Concûü7s NatiûmùÆ d'Euîrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs Session : Juin 2002 4 Concours Mathématiques et Physique; Pbysique et Chimie, Biologie et Géologie &Techpologie  Epreuve d'Anglais
Date Jeudi 06 juin 2002
Heare 1SH
Durée : 2 H
Nbre pages 8
Barème Part I 330, Part II: 30, Part III: 20
MMPORTANI: 1 Lépreuve danglais comporte deux séries de feuilles Les éoncés sétalant sur 4 pages que les candidats sont 'appelés à garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s' étalant sur 4 pages; lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de lépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2 Isera tenu compte de l présentation ('écriture au cryon n'étant pas pennise) Reading passage 6
1. With te development of affordable computer technology over the past two decades coupled with the necd for increased and faster communications the American office place has experienced & significant metamorphosis.  While it was once 9 luxury to have your own office phone extension, it is now common for workers to have voice mail, personal computers; e-mail and Internet connection While these advanccs have aided productivity and business growth, #hex bave also crcated ncw concerns over corporate security efforts and the privacy rights of employecs. As American workers generate billions of e-mails and phone calls every business day, employers are increasivgly  monitoring  and cataloguing these_and other   employce communications. Accordipg to the American Management Association, 73.5 percent of major US. corporations record and monitor employee o mails, computer files and phone copversations; a5 well 2s track Web sites workers visit on BeInternet .These companies often perceivemonitoring u Je best means of limiting liabilfty and increasing worker productivity. Companies vary on whether they inform employccs of such tactics While the American Civil Liberties Union; numerous computer privacy' groups and cores of employees condemn monitoring, arguing that it violetes personal privacy; Baws gardingworkplace privacy indicatediferenty- Passcd by Congrcss in 1986, the 'ectronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) gave employers the right to monitor sctroniccommunications "in the ordinary course" of business Public debate has An over the ethics and legality of employer monitoring  In October 1999, California vernor Gray Davis vetoed a state bill that would bave prohibited companies from 'edy monitoring employeecommunications Other states arc addressing similar es of legislation itoring the electronic communications of employccs violatcs their Constitutional t0 privacy establisbed by the Fourth Amendment Such practiccs alienate workers; Ise their stress levels and destroy company loyalty, 41 ofwhich are detrimental t Toates optows Scusion Jutn 2002 Epramedad# Prgc V 4

--- page 2 ---
overall company performance and customer service Electronic communications espccially of . private nature, are the property of individuals. The ECPA and several current state laws regarding worker privacy give too much authority t0 employers and are extremely antiquated. The Internet and e-mail were barcly in existence wben the ECPA became law. New laws must be enacted to prohibit clectronic monitoring and protect worker privacy. 5. The legal right of employers t intercept the electronic communications of employecs is invaluable to the security and success of countcss companics and must be protected. Considering several recent lawsuits in which plaintiffs sued employers oyer inappropriate office communications; many containing racial Or scxually offensive material employers must be able t review employee communications to limit tcir liability  Monitoring employec e-mails and computer bard drives combats the constant risk of internal backing and sabotage by dissatisfied workers. Employees should be focused on company goals and customer necds wben on company time, not e-mail and Web surfing
by Bryan Knowles June 13, 2000
PART I: Comprehension Questions on The Reading Passage 30 marks )
I -Complete the table on the answer shect witb information from te pessage
II _ Mention 4 techniques used by employers in monitoring thcir employecs
III - How is the need for electronic monitoring viewed by:
9) Employees and privacy activists groups? b)  Employers?
IV _ Complete the following sentence with information from the passage
The company perforance and customer scrvice &e likely to be scriously affected due to factors such as
V _ What is ECPA criticized for?
VI- From the passage it is implied tbat the 4t amendment (tick the appropriate answer on the answer sheet)
a) violates employees privacy b) protects the right to privacy c) denies any right constitutionally established before it d)   regulates monitoring practices
Concur Ioutes optons Seulon Jnin 282
Eprcave d' Andais
Prge2/ 4

--- page 3 ---
VII Focus on tbe last 2 paragraphs and find out what is proposed to protect the interests and rights of both employers and employees.
VIII Indicate whether the following statements are TRUE or FALSE Justify your answer
a) Electronic monitoring is illcgal in Califomia b) All company employers agrec that employees should be made aware that they arc being monitored
IX - What do the following words refer to in the text:
a) they ( $ 1 ) b) these ( $ 2 ) c) all of which( $ 4 ) d) their ( $ 5 )
X -Find in the text words which have the closest meaning to:
1 worries ($ 1) 2. breaks (83) 3 barmful ($4) 4. very precious (85)
XI - Choosc & suitable tide for the text from the following alternatives: a) Violating workers privacy through electronic monitoring b)   Increasing workers productivity through electronic monitoring c)   Increasing employers security through electronic monitoring
PART II: Language ( 30 marks )
1. Choose the right alternative :
[1] (Despite, According to, Although, Due to) the theory of continental drif tbe continents are not fixed in position but [2] even; instead also, only) move slowly across the surface of the earth constantly [3] (changed changing changes; unchangeable) in position relative to one another. This theory was first proposed in the eighteenth century[4] (when; while, where; which) mapmakers noticed how closely the continents of the earth fit together when they were matched up. It was suggested then that the present-day continents bad [5] (hence, once, such often) bcen one large continent that had broken up into pieces wbich drifted apart. Today te moder theory of plate tectonics has [6](developed achieved   elaborated raised) from te theory of continental drift. The theory of plate tectonics suggests that
Concoan Ioutcs opdons Sedoe Join 2o2
Lpreuve &Apghb
Pry 4

--- page 4 ---
the crust of the earu is divided iiiîo 5ix {arge . ând {7} {many, {iiile, {ess, "iuch} Siniâl} tectonic plates that drif on the lava that composes the inner core of the earth. These plates consist [8] (in, of, about, on ocean floor and continents that quite probably began breaking [9] (up, Into, oul, in) and moving relative to one another more than 200 million years [10] (since, before; past; ago) .
2. Supply the correct tense and / or verb form :
Public- health experts used [I] (to think) that science and vigilance in bealth care [2] (to vanquish) the worst diseases. Now they know better. By cutting down forests;   [3] (to food) the landscape with vast hydroclectric dams and digging up fragile rain-forest soil [4] (to build) roads, Brazilians have given a wide variety of germs newfound opportunity   [S] (to infect) humans. Since 1973 the World Health Organization [6] (to identify) worldwide about 30 emerging diseases ailments that [7] (to become) major health threats- most of wbich bave turned up in Brazl And it isn't just the diseases themselves that [8] (to keep) scientists awake at night but the proliferation of vectors that carry them When forests [9] (to clear) for agriculture, ranching and logging mosquitoes [10] (to breed) in the puddles of water that tend to form on the ground
2. Fill in tbe blanks with words of your own that make sense (Use only one word per blank space):
Knowledge is like light.  Weightless   and intangible, it can easily travel the world enlightening the lives of people everywbere. (1) billions (2) people still live in the darkness of poverty unnecessarily. Knowledge about. (3) to treat such a simple  ailment (4) dianbea has existed (5) centuries but millions of children continue to die (6) it because teir parents do not know how to save
Poor countries differ from rich ones not (8) because they bave less capital but because they have less knowledge. Knowledge is often costly to create, and that is why much of it. (9) created in industrial countries. But developing countries can acquire knowledge overseas as well as create their own (10) home
PART III: Translation & Writing (20 marks) A - Translate the following sentence into English : ( 5 marks )
On constate que le nombre de gens qui se connectent à /Intemet ne cesse de croître à un rythme très accéléré depuis que les nouvelles technologies de linformation sont devenues plus accessibles au public.
B- Write about the following topic in about 1S lines : ( 15 marks )
Which source(s) of energy should be encouraged in the future, and why?
Concour Iontes opdou Scssion Juln 22
Eprctmve & Anclab
Puev4

--- page 5 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
Concours Nationaux d'Entréc aur Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs
Signaurc ds srvcillants
MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR Session
Concour
Epreuv de
Ia Jéate Nom 8e Ia Institudon d'originc
Prtnoms
Toul dsdoubls fculles remisas
SIInPReP
Idcntfiant :
Stric : 5 6 "Dingehieurs 5
Total &s doubles {cuilks remiscs
Concours Nationaur d'Entrée aux Cyces de Formation d'Ingénieurs
éatel | Session Juin 2002 Concours Toutes options . feie Epreuve de ANGLAIS (ANSWER SHEET) PART I : 1 8 CAUSE Otfice place metamorpaCzs 8 2 E Advances in communications 2 1 3 4 a b C d L a) b) IV
V _

--- page 6 ---
Ne ren écrire -ci
PART II : 1
6
3
8
9
1 2 78 4 : 5 3.
10
6
7
8
9
10
6
3
8
9
5
10

--- page 7 ---
Ne Ken écrre ici
PART II: IA - Trenslation:
B Writing:
88 78 # :

--- page 8 ---
Rie rien Gclire Ice
X VI -
a
b
d
VII 4 b ) VIII 3 b) [X 78 a b # : d - X -
1
2
3
X -