--- page 1 ---
REPUDLIQUE TUNISIENNE {innlerc dc |'Enacincrnct Suxricu (coun niymnnI eniree WuI Cych de (ormnlka 4'Inrtnicun Scodoo Z0M
Jaiyugwi "ykwyloss Janwal unlufelu 2016 ;"
(uugloikeoue) 70es {Cugemieues>
Concours Mathématiques ct Physiquc, Physique et Chimie, Biologie et Géologie &Technologie Epreuve d'Anglais
Date Jeudi 08 Juin 2006
Heure 15 H
Durée 2 H
Nbre pages 8
Bareme Part [ :30 Part [I: 30 Part III: 20
IMPQRIANI: 1. L'épreuve d'anglais comporte deux séries de feuilles Les énoncés s' étalant sur 4 pages que les candidats sont 'appelés à garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de l'épreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2. Il sera tenu compte de la présentation, (l'écriture au crayon n'étant pas permise) Reading passage 1. Much of the used computer equipment sent from the United States to developing countries for use in homes, schools and businesses is often neither usable nor repairable creating enormous   environmental   problems in some of the word 's poorest   places, according to a report to be issued today by an environmental organization 2. The report, titled 'The Digital Dump: Exporting Reuse and Abuse to Africa; says that the unusable equipment is being donated or sold to developing nations by recycling businesses in te United States  as way to dodge the expense of having to recycle i properly. While the report; written by the Basel Action  Network, based in Seattle focuses on Nigeria, in western Africa; it says the situation is similar throughout much of the developing world. 3. "Too often, justifications of 'building bridges over the digital divide' ar used as excuses to obscure and ignore the fact that tbese bridges double as toxic waste pipelines, says the report. As result. Nigeria and other   developing nations are carrying disproportionate burden of the world's toric waste from technology products, according to Jim Puckett. coordinator of the group: According to the National Safety Council, more than 63 million computers in the United States will soon become obsolete. An average computer monitor can contain 9s much as eight pounds of lead, along with plasacs laden with flame rtardants and cadmium; 94! ofwhich can be harmful to the environment and to humans. 5. In 2002, the Basel Action Network was co-author of a report that said 50 percent to 80 percent  of electronics waste   collectcd for recycling in the United States   was being disassembled and rcycled under largely unregulated, unhealthy conditions in China, India, Pakistun and other   developing countries. The new rport contends that Americans may be lulled into thinking their old computers are being put to good use. 6. At the Nigerian port of Lagos, thc new report says, an estimated SO0 containers of used clectronic   equipmnent enter the country euch month, cach onc carrying about 800 computers, for a total of about 400,000 uscd computers a month. Thc majority ol thc equipment   urriving in Lagos, the rport suys, is unusable and neither cconomically repuirable or resaluble. "Nigerians ar telling Us they ure getting s much as 75 percent junk that is not repnirnble , Mr. Puckett said. He 3aid that Nigeria, likc most developing countries, could only ucconnnodate functloning used cquipment.
Illc
Tuutce "pilon Youkni Julu :uua
kuruve 4' Anrlal
Peke 1/4

--- page 2 ---
Ihu: environmental group visited L.agos wherc It (ound that despite growing technology industries, the country lackcd an infrastructure for electronics recycling. This mcans thal thne imported equipment often ends up in landfills, whcre toxins in thc equipment (an pollute the groundwatcr and create unhealthy conditions. Mr. Puckett said thc group had identilicd J() rccyclers in the Initcd States who had agrcd not to export electronic waste t0 developing countrics. We arc trying t0 get it (o be common practicc that you have to test what you send and lahel @!, ~ he said . 8 Mr. Puckett also said his group was trying to enforce the Basel (onvention, United Yations treaty intended to limit the trade of hazardous waste. The United States is the only developed country that has not ratified the treaty. Much of the equipment being shipped to Africa and other developing areas is from recyclers in the United States, who   typically get the used equipment free from businesses, governmcnt agencies and communities and ship it abroad for repair, sale or to be dismantled using low-cost labor. 10 Scrap Computers, a recycler in Phoenix, has eight warehouses across the United States to store collected electronics before they are shipped to foreign destinations, and Graham Wollaston; the company's president, savs he is opening new warebouses at the rate of one a month. MMr. Wollaston, who describes his company as a 'giant sorting operation; said there was reuse for virtually every component of old electronic devices: old televisions are turned into fish tanks for Malaysia, and a silicon glass shortage has created huge demand for old monitors, which are turned into new ones. There's no such thing as a third-world landfill," Mr Wollaston said . "If you werc to put an old computer on the street, it would be taken apart for the parts 1l Mr. Wollaston said the system was largely working, though he conceded tbat some recyclers dump useless equipment in various developing nations, most notably China "One of the problems the industry faces is a lack of certification as to where it's all going, he said. He says his company tests all equipment destined for developing nations. 12. The Environmental Protection Agency concedes that 'inappropriate practices" have occurred in the industry, but said it did not think the problem should be addressed by stopping all exports. 'E.PA. has been working witb the   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries for the last several years on development of program that would provide much greater assurance that exports of recyclable materials   will be environmentally sound,  Tom Dunne, of the   agency's Office of  Solid Waste and Emergency Response, wrote in an e-mail message. I3w LAURIE J. FLYNN , Octoter 25,2005
PART [: Comprehension Questions 30 marks Decide which of the following best summarizes the text: A- The USA a generous donor of uscd clecrronic equiprnent. B - Poor nations ae littered with old electronc equipnient C- Arguments lvr ad aganst recycling old PCs
11 Which of the following ideas is not dealt with in the text? 'T7e' toxic waste trom lechnology 1n den eloping countrnes [3 - Ilne uproper practices of rexycling bususses D- Recucling used electronic nteruals evenually contributes to the protection vtthe Cns IlOieiil
I Reler t0 Parngraph in the text and fill in the table on (he answcr shcet with the apprvpriate information.
788ie*71806 > Ioutcv uputlou Senlo Juin Zuiio
{urcuvu
Auglwx
Pars 2/4

--- page 3 ---
IV [ndicate whether the lollowlng stutements are TRCE or FALSE. Justily your answer wilh detaib (rom (he text
a) Most ofthc old electronic cqupment rcccived by Nigeria is likely to bc rccycled rcused repared ' resold b) The Ancrican pecple are made to belicvc thal the old electronic equpment they donate t0 developing coutries is actually being profitable to these countres
V _ Why do developed countries such as the USA resort to exporting used electronic equipment to develping countries?
VI - Complete the following statemcnts with information from the text: a) Mr.  Wollaston clams that, unlike other recyclers, his company Scrap Computers
b) Exponing used electronic equipment to developing nations is often justified as a way to help these counsies bridge the technology gap. However, it is atually .
VII Which toxic pollutants are found in computer monitors?
FT Which solutions are suggested in the text to deal with the problem of the exports of recyclable electronic equipment?
IX - What do the following words in the text refer to
a) it ( $ 2 ) b) all of which ( $ 4 ) c) it ( $ 7 ) d)   thæy $ 10 )
LX Find in the tert words which have the closest meaning to:
avoid ($ 2) out-of- date ($ 4) dangerous ($ 8) storerooms $ 10)
PART II : Language 30 marks
Supply the corrrct tense and verb form
{, &
Ever_sincelle_Czech writer Karel Capek lirst {l| (coin) the term robot > in T2I , there 12| (be) ./l expectation thar robots would soux day deliver us fron the drudgery of hard work Tle word frum the Czedh (( rohula lor hard labor and senitude- [3| (describe) intellugcn:   machies 4| (use) as slaves in his play R.UR (Rossum's Universal  Robols) . 'Today {Cr one mllion househld roluts; Jnd a further 1.1 million industrial robols |51 (operalc) worldwide:  Robots [o| (use) to perform lusks that [7| (rquirc) great levels ol precision Jr :rc simply repctilive :nd lxrnng: Many alsa [8| (do) jobs that are harardous
Jiifs Toutu ,Paunmie Saulun Juin Z(k6
Kpruve €' Anelun
Fke J/4

--- page 4 ---
lo pcoplc, such a oxploring shpwrccks, helpmng out aflcr disnsters, studying other planets and dcfusng bombs and mncs Robots [9| (Increasinety march) mnto our lives In the {uture, rohots [I0| (act) æ carers, mcdics, bionic cnhancemcnts; companions; entertaners; security guards, Iraflic police and evcn soldiers
2. Choose thc right alternative
[I] ( Beczusel Althoughl However, nuclear planls emit no carbon, nuclear power is emerging a a way of saving the eath from global warming: [2] ( Bccauscl Altbouehl But the twin specters of nuclear waste and proliferation cast doubt on whether nuclear power can fulfill [3] (thatl thisthese) promise: [4] ( Bccausel Althoughl As matter of fact, when the uranum fuel of a nuclear power plant is < spent,) what 1s lef is a mixture of radioactive substances, [5] (of whomlof wbichlof that ) [ percent is plutonium [6] Becausel Although/ However; ) plutonium stays radioactive for tens of thousands of years, it must be kept in a facility that lasts a long time. [7] (Meanwhilel Suchl However, nuclear waste keeps piling [8] downl upl through ) To minimize the waste problem the nuclear establishment is advocating reprocessing > in whch plutonium is separated out and recycled as nuclear fueL: Ninety-nine percent of what remains [9] might needlhad better ) be easier to dispose of; but the percent that remains is [10] (a the /@) pure pluonium
3. Use the rght form of te word given between brackets The choices that societ makes in the use of engineering today and in the near future will be [1] (instrument) in determining whether we [2] (succeed) tackle the problem of global climate change or not. Because s0 many human activities result in [3] (emit) of greenhouse gases, there is a very wide range of possible ways to avoid this problem namely , change in energy production [4] (improve) in energy [5] (efficient) by technical means, etc
Rewrite the following sentences, keeping the same meaning. Begin the sentences as indicated on the answer sheet.
We are not paying enough attention to the damage caused to the environment b) They are raising the needed funds to set up 1 company which builds rockets. It is technically feasible to use superconductors to increase the speed of computers. This farming technique not onh uses fewer resources but also gives better crops Although the test was carried out on a small sample it showed substantial results
PART III Translation & Writing 20 marks A- Translate the following sentence into English Smarks)
Bien que des progrès remarquables aient été néalisés dans le domaine de traitement des déchets dangereux, beaucoup reste à faire à la fois sur les plans de la réglementation à mettre en place et de l'infastnucture dont on a besoin pour gérer les dechets polluants
B - Write about the following topic in about 15 lines. (15 marks)
In what ways have spsce technology und space scientific rsearch helped sciencc on Earth to advancc
ncuun '[at, upiu Youawl Jura 2006
Kprouv J' Lnrlel
Hre W4