--- page 1 ---
12 98"152/42) Y.lxzlbzts &+=b
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
Ministère de F'Enseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche Scientifique Concours Nationaux dEntrée aux Cycles de Formation di 'Ingénieurs Session 2016
Jsi uji aljbliJI
inni ws Jlc
2016 *3
Concours Toutes Options Epreuve & Anglais
Date Jeudi 26 Mai 2016
Heure 14 H
Durée 2 H
Nb pages 08
Barème Part [ 30, Part II 30, Part III 20
'MPORIANI : L'épreuve danglais comporte deux séries de feuilles Les énoncés s'étalant sur 4 pages que les candidats sont appelés garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answers sheets) s'étalant sur 4 pages, lesquelles Doivent être rendues à la fin de Fépreuve aux professeurs surveillants Il sera tenu compte de la présentation; (Vécriture au crayon n'étant pas permise)
Reading passage: 1 - The Earth's climate has changed. After nearly two centuries of fossil fuel-burning; concentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere have reached 400 parts per million; especially boosted by the seemingly ever- -accelerating amount of combustion in the last few decades according to the World Meteorological Organization. Atmospheric CO2 concentrations of 0.04 percent may not seem like much but it is enough to have already raised average global temperatures by a full degree Celsius; according to the UK.'s Met Office, with more warming on the way as the greenhouse gas lingers invisibly in the atmosphere, trapping heat, or mixing into the ocean; rendering its waters more acidic_ 2- In fact; the world has not seen CO2 concentrations this high in at least hundreds of thousands of years Roughly 35 billion metric tons of CO2 are spewed into the atmosphere annually and rising. The waters of the global ocean have become 30 percent more acidic in the last few decades and the world has not been this warm in thousands of years. This year is likely to be the hottest one since record keeping began; thanks to an El Nino weather pattern that's taking place in addition to global warming: The top 10 warmest years have all occurred since 1998, which was the year of the last major El Nino . 3- Worse, farming; forest-clearing and other activities have contributed to enissions of other greenhouse gases; such as methane and nitrous oxide; the latter more commonly known as laughing gas, which is no laughing matter in the atmosphere. 4-Yet, there are signs of hope as well. The U.S. is burning less coal; Europe; and even China have begun to use less of this_dirtiest of fossil fuels And although India and the rest of Asia are building hundreds of coal- fired power plants, there are also plans for more electricity derived from the sun in India, wind in China Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2016 Epreuve d' Anglais Page 1/4

--- page 2 ---
and hot rocks in Indonesia. In fact, renewables are growing fast all over the world, helping keep more CO2 out of the air. Half of the world's electricity could come from less climate polluting sources by 2040, according to the International Energy Agency's latest World Energy Outlook report. The electric output of renewables  alone in 2040 may match the electric output of fossil fuel-fired power plants in China; the European Union and the U.S today . 5-Already; China, the European Union; and U.S ~the worlds largest polluters, together responsible for more than half of global pollution have agreed to limit future greenhouse gas emissions. Compared with 1997 when the Kyoto Protocol to combat climate change was agreed on or 2009 when another effort to craft a global deal collapsed in Copenhagen; the prospects for a global effort to combat climate change have never been better. With climate negotiations under way in Paris now, there is a real chance for a comprehensive set of actions from more than 190 nations around the world, all to restrain global warming. 6-There are yet more signs of hope, like the fact that cities, states , provinces and even nations have started to put a price on CO2 pollution in a bid to cut back its use. We also now live in a world where an infrastructure project like the Keystone XL Pipeline to connect Alberta's tar sands with Texas's heavy oil refineries can be rejected  because of its   perceived   impact on climate   change. In other   words, what once seemed impossible -stopping a fossil fuel project in a world that derives nearly 90 percent of its energy from fossil fuels has become not only possible; but reality. 7-There is still long way to go, as that 90 percent  figure implies. The gap between what nations have promised reductions of as much as 11 billion metric tons of greenhouse gases by 2030 and what is needed to avoid adding another degree C to the global average temperature an additional reduction of at least seven billion metric tons of CO2 by 2030 remains large. There are thousands of fossil fuel-fired power plants; more than a billion petroleum-powered vehicles and all the attendant infrastructure to service them; whether oil pipelines; roads or coal mines. We may need technologies like CO2 capture and storage, even if only to deal with the climate-changing pollution from natural gas-fired power plants or the cement kilns and steel foundries needed to build wind turbines or nuclear reactors_ 8-We have entered what might be called the Anthropocene thermal maximum; an era of global warming driven by one species penchant for burning fossil fuels and cutting down forests. Right now in 2015 may be the last time anyone breathes air with average CO2 concentrations below 400 ppm, as this number marches seemingly inexorably upward. But we don't have to keep adding to that number forever_ By David Biello on November 10, 2015
Part A-
READING COMPREHENSION 30 marks
I- Choose the best alternative. The text conveys the idea that ( 1 mark ): *1- Global warming is not as hazardous as we present it. *2- Global warming has reached alarming levels that 's why urgent action is imperative *3- Fossil fuels have to be banned altogether by international laws to save our planet. II- Referring to the text; complete the table with the appropriate information about global warming 6 marks Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2016 Epreuve d' Anglais Page 2/4

--- page 3 ---
III- Complete the following sentences with reference to the text ( 3 marks ): *1- Meteorologists noticed that. were the hottest cver. *2- It is expected that some countries will resort to  (a) in an attempt to (b) IV- Select the correct option ( 3 marks ): *1- Scientists think the globe is heading toward: (a) a warmer agel  (b) devastating cyclonesl (c) total destruction *2- El Nino refers to: (a) a renewable source of power (b) a new greenhouse gas (c) a warm ocean current *3- Greenhouse gases can: (a) combat climate change (b) not be seen in the airl (c) be caused by El Nino V-Answer the following questions 1-Despite the alarming situation; the writer seems somewhat optimistic about the possibility to reduce global warming in order to limit its negative effects_ Give 3 expressions to justify (3marks ) 2- According to the writer, the measures taken by the industrialized countries are not sufficient to restrain global warming   Pick out 2 justifications from the text ( 2 marks VI- Say whether the following statements are True or False. Justify from the text (4 marks) *1- Renewables could never be an alternative to fossil fuels in the generation of electricity *2- Harming the atmosphere is an act to be paid for to preserve a respectable quality of the air VII- Explain the following expressions ( 2 marks ): *1- Which is no laughing matter in the atmosphere (83) *2- The global deal collapsed in Copenhagen (85) VIII- What do the underlined words in the text refer to? ( 3 marks *1- this $ 2) *2- this dirtiest of fossil fuels ($4) *3- its (86) IX- Find words in the text that have approximately the same meaning as (3marks): 1- about(82) 2 - factories for producing energy ($7) 3- period of time (88)
Part B- LANGUAGE 30 marks I- Put the bracketed words in the right tense or form 10 marks This momning; a Muslim man [1] throw off a National Express coach for 'looking shifty' Due to this ordeal; the 42-year-old, who [2] currently/ study Chinese at the Open University, [3] feel ) angry, discriminated against and treated differently to everyone else because of the way he [4] (dress and the fact he's got a beard . [5] Origin from Somalia; Mr. Ismail practicing Muslim [6] flee his wor tomn country 15 years ago and [7] live ) in the UK as British citizen ever since. He believes the other passengers became [8] suspect when they saw that he [9] carry three bags of luggage. spokesman for National Express said they [10] investigate the matter to determine liability. II- Complete with the appropriate word. The first two letters the word begins with and a synonym of the word are provided to help you ) (10 marks Cannabis   can [1] re... ease) constant pain more [2] ef. efficiently) than   conventional medicines; according to a new study likely to flame the [3] de. (= discussion) on the medical use of marijuana .  Scientists from the Australian National Drug and Alcohol Centre [4] di.. found
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2016
Epreuve d' Anglais
Page 3/4

--- page 4 ---
out)  that patients with [5] ch..- (= constant) pain who used the drug said it diminished their symptoms better than opioid medications; which are [6] hi..  (= extremely) addictive and can cause accidental overdoses. The [7] re.. (= study) analyzed 1,500 patients; aged in their late 4Os and early 50s, who suffered from conditions including back [8] ac.. (= pain), migraines and arthritis; and whose [9] ph..  (= doctors) prescribed them heavy-duty opioid medications; such as morphine and oxycodone. Professor Louisa Degenhardt; from the National Drug and Alcohol Centre and the University of Melbourne; [10] le.- (= conducted) the study. Her team found that almost 13 per cent of the patients had used the illegal drug in the past year on top of their prescribed medication. III Express differently starting as given on the answer sheet (keep the same meaning) 10 marks 1-Iam sure it was my grandmother who cooked the lunch. 2 - Providing you return the product; we will refund you. 3- He did not accept the offer because the salary was low_ 4 - They like the vegetables they grow at home. 5- "Tm sorry I broke the vase, Jane" 6- The economic crisis occurred because the government didn't take strict measures 7 - Neither Steve nor Paul watched the movie 8- We think the thief robbed the bank last night. 9- I prefer staying at home to going out. 10- Despite his extreme wealth, he does not help the poor.
Part € -
WRITING ( 20 marks
I- Correct the underlined mistakes   (2.5 marks ): *1- They are hold responsible for this terrorist act_ *2-: Due to his wealth, he can afford to buy this luxurious palace: *3-: So far, we arc doing three exercises_ *4-: Read the question carefully not to d0 any mistakes. *5-: Iadvise you to trx on your coat because it's cold outside. II- Re-order to obtain a coherent paragraph 2.5 marks ): *a Save the world before it's too late. #b- are felt across the globe; *c- As the impacts of a warming climate *d- with a mission as simple as it is daunting: *e our leaders are gathering in Paris III- Essay ( 15 marks According to you; is nuclear energy- as an alternative source of power to fossil fuels worth the risks? Use solid convincing arguments to support your point of view in a 15-line essay .
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2016
Epreuve d Anglais
Page 4/4