--- page 1 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Ministère de ['Enscigncmcnt
9201422491 @Yadyiæss Rg@beL 41 diw Yhs Buell innissulc 2007 61
Supcricur; dc la Rcchcrche Scicntifique €t dc la Technologic Concours nationaux d'cntréc aux cycles dc formation d'ingénicurs Scssion 2007
Concours Mathématiques et Physique; Physique et Chimie; Biologie et Géologie &Technologie Epreuve d'Anglais Date Jeudi 07 Juin 2007 Heure 15 H Durée 2 H Nbre pages 08
Barème Part [ :30, Part II: 30, Part III: 20
IMPORTANI: Quoniqur 1. Lépreuve danglais  comporte deux séries de feuilles àçarder @ Sa Les énoncés sétalant sur pages que les candidats sont appelés à Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de Vépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2 Il sera tenu compte de la présentation, (V'écriture au crayon n'étant pas permise) Making a business from solar home systems 1. SELCO-India is a private business which has designed and sold over 48,000 solar bome systems, powering electric lighting and small appliances [or 220,000 people in Karnataka and other states in South India Around 46% of houscholds in India do not have mains electricity, and for many others the supply is unreliable. The use of photovoltaic (PV) solar-home-systems (SHS) can provide reliable power for lighting and low-power eppliances, which brings great  practical   benefits.  Smoky, dangerous kerosene light is avoided, people bave extended hours for work and study, and more opportunities for leisure and entertainment 2. Many programmes tbroughout the world have attempted to improve quality of lile using SHS but often Hhex have not led to long term use and continuing markets. SELCO-Indla believes that the use of SHS will become widespread only if the system and after-sales service are of high quality, and if people want an SHS epough to pay for it. Wbat they provide is properly designed and   installed   systems,   excellent   on-tbe-spot service and links   to organisations   which   offer appropriate and affordable finance. 3 The core business of SELCO-India is the design and sale of photovoltaic (PV) solar-home-systems (SHS), principally for lighting, but also suitable for radios, cassette players and fans; A common system desigp supplics four 7W compact fluorcscent lights (CFLs) Electrical power is generated by a 35 Wp PV module, which is usually mountcd on the roof of a house. A 90 Ah (ampere-hour) lead-acid   battery is usedfor storage, so that thc system   works both day and night and throughout the year. The batteries uscd are designed to withstand significant discharge cach day without rapid deterioration. (Cbeaper car batteries cannot withstand this, and would become unusable within about six months) An electronic charge-controller  protects the battery from charging or discbarging too mucb, and enables the battery to be used for at least five years. However, systems are individually designed to mcet the needs (and budget) of eech customer, and there are many variations wbich can be used. The installation of the system is carried out by SELCO technicians; and great emphasis is placed on appropriate sitipg of all components, and tidy wiring. One innovative idea from SELCO to make systems affordable is t0 mount a light in the corner of one room and remove bricks into other rooms; so that single light provides background illumination in three rooms. Apother feature which allows flexibility at low cost is having lights which can bc moved from one place to another, and installing the wiring and brackets for six lighting points in a four-light system _ 5. A core principle of SELCO-Indie is that poor people are able to afford modern energy services and that in the casc of PV, an energy source wbich is regarded 88 expensive by the rich (in Concours Toutcs optons - Scsslon Julo 2007 Eprcuve d'Anghls Pegc 1/4

--- page 2 ---
comparison with grid electricity) is actually cbeap for the poor (in comparison with ken lamps and dry cell batteries) The main problem is lack of initial capital. SELCO doa providc credit or loans, but bas built up working reletionships with local banks and microor organisations ovcr many years. Tbis has given finance organisations the confidence to pr credit for PV systems, and an understanding of tbe payment terms wbich different ownen rced. Some users work directly with the finance organisations, others work through selfl groups which gives additional security tha: a loan will be repaid . Tbe immediate benefit to users is the provision of clean, good-quality light. and power for appliances Good light improves morale and opportunities in ways which are difficeh | quantify . Children are able to study, domestic tasks are done more safely and easily, and are increased opportunities for income generation.- There are significant cnvironmental benefits from tbe PV systems. Tbe immediate benefit is the use of smoky. dangerous kerosene lamps is minimiscd. In addition; owners no longer use dispose of dry-cell batteries. Families wbo use kerosene for ligbting consume about 120 litres :F.so : Je 40 ~a9 ?stems installed avoid tbe emission of about 14,000 tonnes of CO2 equival? per year.. 8. The operation of SELCO has provided valuable employment opportunities Tbe total number employees is about 170, of whom about 145 are in the 25 local service centres. Employment_ also bcen generated outside the company, including increascd sales of small electrical applian like fans and radios.. Many of the benefits of the work of SELCO are particularly significant for women: they 0a spend more üime ip the bome and therefore appreciate the improved lght and incou generation opportunities. Many women take theresponsibility of paying for tbe SES, tbrough this, gain confidence in Ginancial management SHS owners were very pleased with tbé systems, and clearly took pride in them Within SELCO. 21% of senice centre staff and 43% of head office staff are female, and tha sister-company has an entirely female workforce 9. SELCO provides an excellent replicable model for providing better energy services to p pcople, while at the same time developing thriving business. They bave shown that sol electricity can be successful and affordable, provided that a proper service and financing syste is ic place. Witbin India alone, 46% of households do not have grid electricity, and many mor have an unreliable supply, s0 the opportunities for similar enterprises are enormous. 10. SELCO aim to have installed 235,000 SHS by 2010, but also want to provide other energ services. One area whicb   they would like to cover the provision of cheap. improve cookstoves: sa vings on wood might also be linked to payments for the SHS.
Dr. Anne Whcldon. !shde: !wards. 200
PART I: Comprehension Questions 30 marks
I = Fill in tbe table ou the answer sheet with information from the passage describing tbe impact of the solar home systems on the given aspects.
II = Using information from the passage; supply the missing details in the table on the answer sheet.
III = Under which conditions can the solar home systems be widely adopted?
IV_Complete the following statement with information from the text:
Although the solar home systems (SHS) were primarily designed for thev can also be used to operate home appliances such as
V-State whetber the following are TRUE or FALSE. Justify your answers from tbe text:
9) Thanks to the new battery technology, Seico managed t0 design a solar home systel which is both standard and affordable. Coucours Tovtas opdons Scsdion Juia 2007 Eprcuve d'Anghais Page2

--- page 3 ---
b) The purchase of the solar home systems can be directly financed by Selco.
VI = From 2 technical point of view, how do solar home systems compare with conventional power systems?
VII _ Explain in your owu words: "SELCO provides an excellen , replicabie model for providing better energy services {0 poor people, while at the same time developing a thriving business (S
VIII What is tbe next step in Selco's strategy for providing an affordable energy service to the poor population?
IX What do the following words (underlined in the text) refer to? a) they (8 2 b) this 8 3 c) which 8 5 d) them { $ 8
@C
)nler JDe
X -Find in the text words which have the closest meaning to:
bd
to resist (83) 2 to install ($ 4) 3 most important ($ 5) 4 prosperous ($ 9)
bci
Nx Hu Lec Or
PART II: Language (30 marks Choose the right alternative
' Yed
{1] (Although Whereas Since) many countries have a health care system based on socialized medicine, in the United States, it is based on private health insurance. [2] (However Indeed / As result ), unlike countries where taxes   help provide accessible health care for the masses, the U.S. system is privately owned [3] In addition Thus Yet ), it is generally considered to be terribly expensive. So, though many of the most highly acclaimed physicians in the world practise {4] (a the medicine in te United States, these specialists are often inaccessible and unaffordable for [5] much many / little ) of the public. To pay for medical services; American health insurance companies charge fees [6] at on / in ) a regular basis and are generally paid for by individuals or by their employer. These regular fees are known as premiums [7] Despite Due to In addition to these premiums, most cliencs [8] must might  had better) pay additional fees called deductibles. Today Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) are very common: One advantage of using an HMO is that it often picks up the entire cost for the patient, including prescriptions: [9] ( As a consequence /However /Furthermore), many patients do not like the fact that their HMO determines which physicians; including specialists; they can use. Most Americans would prefer to have more freedom of choice in determining [10] which / that / whom) they can go to for their health care.
0:
2. Supply the correct tense and verb form The orange groves of Valencia could soon be powering Spanish   cars as new technology is developed to turn the fruit s thick, shiny peel into biofuel. In region with 190,000 bectares [1] (cover) with oranges and lemons- many of which are 'eft to rot on the trees- citric-powered cars could reduce pollution while using readily available source of energy, according to local officials.
Concoun Toutes optows Sesdon Juin 2007
Epreuve d'Anghus
Prge Y

--- page 4 ---
The presence of a Ford car factory, which [2] (settle) in the town of Almussafes a years before; adds to the potential for the rgion. Oranges and lemons [3] (culttve along the east coast since at least the 18th century and are still the region's bige expon product. Valencia [4] (produce) 4m tonnes of oranges ycar, most of wi ae squeezed into juice. Most of the 240,000 :onnes of waste [S] (sell) as animal { but it could be tumed into bioethanol.  Each tonne of pulp could more than fill average car's petrol tank, [6] (produce) 80 litres of fuel. Once the new juice ph planned for the region is completed, waste output [7] (rise) 1o 500,000 tonnes; a lx official said.  Valencia intends [8] (utilise) the technology being developed in anot} orange-growing region of the world, Florida. If a distribution network around Valencia region were installed, locals [9] (pay) about 40% less per litre than what 6 [10] (pay) currently for petrol.
3. Use the right form of the word given between parentheses
What is [1] (create)? To many pecple; a creative person is anyone who has g imagination or an [2] (invent) mind. To others, it is only someone who is [3] (arti gifted such as a painter, writer or architect. This term has been defined as that whi brings into existence, causes or produces new and effective ideas or ways of doi things. According to this definition; a person who is considered creative could inclu someone from almost any walk of life. One characteristic many psychologists have agreed upon as being common to creati types is an insatiable curiosity. This [4] (end) desire t0 know more, experience mo and discover mor seems to apply to all creative types. Tha: is the [5] (physics) w discovered penicillin or the inventor of a microchip or of a more efficient way to p bills over the phone, can be thought of as creative; and perhaps just as creative Picasso or Mozart.
While keeping the same meaning, rewrite the following sentences as indicated on tb( answer sheets
Technology is changing our lives. It is unnecessary to carry out this experiment for the time being 5 The conventional batteries do not last as long as the nanotechnological ones do. "We will   change the   assembly   line we installed three years ago the mana promised. 5 The findings of our research should not be published before they are fully endorsed the research team
PART III: Translation & Writing (20 marks) A Translate the following into English (5 marks )
Depuis le 19ème siècle, la consommation d'énergie n'a cessé de croître dune fa exponentielle Il a été consommé dans le monde autant d'énergie en 2005 qu'e 1950 et   1960. Les  efforts   visent   actuellement promouvoir   les activités qui diffuseront plus de produits toxiques et pemettront en même temps, aux plus pau' de satisfaire leurs besoins fondamentaux dans ce domaine
B - Write about the following topic in approrimately 15 lines : ( 15 marks
Some people claim that advances in science and technology bave made our world better and safer. To what extent is this true, according to you?
Concours Toutes opdow  Sadon Juin 2007
Eprcuve d Anehu

--- page 5 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs
Signature dcs survcillants
MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT Supérieur, de la Recberche Scientifique et de La Technologie Session
Concours
Epreuve de
Nom
Prénoms
écife[ la IeC Iene Institution d'origine
Total des doubles feuilles remises
Identifiant
Série
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs
Total dcs doublcs fcuillcs remises
l Jéailre{ Session Juin 2007 Concours Toutes options . /e_len € Epreuve de ANGLAIS (ANSWER SHEET). PART I :
Hcalth
8 Environment Z E 9 Life-style
Women's living conditions
3 Organization locatiou Field of activily
Targcled social grt"P
Size of workforce
Selco
III
a)
b)
c) IV- Although the solar home systems (SHS) were primarily designed for they can also be used to opcrate home appliances such as
Concours Toules options Session Juin 2007
Eprcuve d'Anglais
Pege 1/4

--- page 6 ---
Ne fien écrire Icf
V _
9) [
b) [
VI-
3 EB # 8 b) c) d) 1.
Coocoun Tousas options - Scadon Jin 2007
Eprauvc FAnthis
Pre2/4

--- page 7 ---
Ne Gien écrire {c
PART II :
8 IB # 8
10
10
1 Our lives
2. Tbis experiment
3. Tbe nanotechnological batteries last
The manager promised that
5. Not until they arc fully endorsed by the research team
Coocour Tous apions - Saadoa Juin 2007
Epitanc @Antloi
Pee3/4

--- page 8 ---
%
PART III Translation:
B Writing:
1 8 2 ;
Concours Toutes opuons Session Juin 2007
Epreuve dAnglais
Page 4/4