--- page 1 ---
preP 5 paRATOIRE  REPUBLIQUE TUNISENNE Mnstère de [Ensexgnerent bibLIGTHEQLE ' Concours Natonaur d' Entréc aux Suceneur e de la Recberche 2 Cycles de Formarion dIngénieurs Sc:entuique et de ia Technologe Yetudes 5 Sduteney  Session Juin 2004 Concours Mathématiques et Physique, Physique et Chimie, Biologie et Géologie & Technologie Epreuve d'Anglais
Dare Jeudi 10 Juin 2004 Heure : 15 H
Durée : 2 H
Nbre pages : 8
Barème Part [ :30 Part I: 30 ; Part I: 20
MMPORTANT: 1, L'épreuve d angiais comporte deux series de feuilles Les énoncés $ étalant sur pages que les candidats sont appelés à garder Les feilles réservees aux réponses (Answer sheets) $ étalant sur pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues ù la fin de Vépreuve 1ux professeurs surveillants 2 Isera tenu compte de la présentarion, (lécriture au crayon n'étant pas permise) Reading passage 1 Clearly, science has mattered a lot, for a long time. Advances in food , public health and medicine helped raise life expectancy in the United States in the past century from roughly 50 to 80 years:. So {0o, world population between 1950 and 1990 more than doubled, now exceeding six billion. Biology discovered the structure of DNA; made test- tube babies   and cured   diseases. And the decoding of the human genome is leading scientists toward 2 detailed understanding of how the body works; offering the bope of new treatments for cancer and other diseases. . 2. In physics, breakthrougns   produced   digital   electronics and subatomic discoveries. American rocket science won the space race, put men on the moon, probed distant planets and lofted hundreds of satellites; incuding the Hubble Space Telescope 3. But major problems also arose: acid rain, environmental torins, the Bhopal chemical disaster, nucear waste global warming, the ozone hole; fears over genetically modified food and the {ery destruction of two space shuttles, not to mention the curse of jupk € mai. Such troubles have helped ieed social disenchannnent with science.. 4 Despite the explosion in te life sciences,   cancer still darkens many lives, and the flowering of   biotechnology has fed worries about   genetically modified foods and organisms as well as the pending reinvention of what it means to be human Many people worry that the growing power of genetics will sully the sanctity of human life. 5. Last month, the American President' 5 Council on Bioethics issued a report warning that biotechnology in pursuit of human perfection could lead t0 unintended and destructive ends. Experts also worry 1bout terrorists using advances in biology for intentional harm; perhaps on vast new scales.. 6. Ihe pbysical   3ciences seem {0 have lost what was once 4 good story line.. Some observers worry that physics has entered 2 phase of diminishing returns. That theme runs through "The End of Science 1 1997 book by John Horgan. In an interview, Mr. Horgan noted that physicists n0 longer make nuclear arms and have lost momentum on taming fusion energy, which powers the sun, and on developing a theory of everything 9
Coacours Toutes opion Sessioe Juun 2004
Eprcure €' Anglais
Pige VA

--- page 2 ---
knd of mathematical glue that would unite the sciences. Abstract physics, he said, has vandered Jff into the fantasy land of higher dimensions and superstring theory 1nd has really lost touch with reality. Other experts disagree. noring that scientific fields rise and fall in cycles and that physic may be poised for new strides. "You can smell discovery in the ar, said Dr. Leon M. Lederman, 1 Yobel laureate in physics and an architect of the supercollider. The sense of imminent revolution is very strong. Despite the decline in prestige recorded in the recent Harris poll, scientists still top the list of 22 professions in terms of high status. aead of doctors, teachers, lawyers and athletes.- 8 Some experts believe that despite the gnawing doubts today, the vorld will be ever more inclined to seek scientific answers to questions related to the environment, health, security, food and energy in the decades to come. "It will probably accelerate; said Dr. John H Marburger III a science adviser; 'because it will become increasingly obvious that we need this steady infusion of results to sustain our ability to cope with all these social problems. An urgent goal, experts say, is to develop new sources cf energy, which vill become vitally important as oil becomes increasingly scarce. Another is to better understand the nuances of climate change, for instance how the sun and ocean affect the atmosphere. Such work is in its infancy. Another is to develop ways of countering the spread of nuclear arms and germ weapons. The world will also need a new science of cities, to heip coordinate planning in areas like waste; water use, congestion, highways; hazard mitigation and pollution control .. 9 Dr. Richard E. Smalley; a Rice University professor and Yobel laureate in chemistry, argues that new technologies and conservation can probably solve the world's energy needs. But success, he said, requires a new army of scientists and engineers: Like others. Dr. Smalley worries about a significant shift in the demographics of American graduate schools in science and engineering. By 1999, according to the latest figures from the Yational Science Foundation; the number of foreign students in full-iime engineering programs had soared 30 high that it exceeded, for the first time, the steeply declining number of Americans. 10. Whether the complex challenges of today generate 4 new era of scientific greamness. several scientis{s said, may   depend on how 2 deeply   conflicted   public answers the question of whether  science still matters.. For any man to abdicate an interest in science, Jacob Bronowski. the science historian; wrote, "is to walk with open eyes towards slavery. Ercarra Encyclopedia, 2004 PART I: Comprehension Questions 30 marks 1 - From the foilowing; choose 2 main ideas expressed in the passage: (On the answer sheet put a cross (X) where appropriate) A Breakthroughs and disillusions in scientific fields B. Decline of science c. Yew challenges and concerns for science D. The impact of technological progress on space exploration I - Complete the table on the answer sheet with appropriate information from the passage I Pick out from the passage four serious threats to the environment resulting from scientific and technological advances. IV - Complete the following sentences with information from the passage 2) Some people ae disillusioned with biotechnology because it
Concours Toutes options Session Juin 2004
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 2/4

--- page 3 ---
b) n the USA there seems to be 1 decline in interest in science in generai, and engineerng studies in particular, as shown by V _ Which   problems will science have to urgently deal with in the following areas? 2 Urban planning 6 Weather C Security d Energy VI _ Indicate whether the following statements are TRUE or FALSE. Justify your answer with details from the tert: 4) Science has alwavs evolved steadily b) To the satisfacton Of consumers;, GM food has been 1 major   breakthrough in biotechnology VII Expiain in your own words the two different views about the evolution of physics as expressed in the following statements: ~The physical sciences seem t0 have lost what was once a good story line. (8 6) physics may be poised for new strides (S VI Comment briefly on the following statement from the passage: For any man t0 abdicate an interest in science is to walk with open eyes towards slavery. "($10) [X - Choose the best alternative ? 1 disenchantment ($3): 2) disagreement 6 disillusion distrust 2 taming fusion energy ($6) 2) controlling it b) converting it c) getting rid of it 3. shift ($9) 2) deletion b) drift c)   change 4 soared ($9) a) declined suddenly b) rose sharply moved steadily X _ Find in the text words which have the closest meaning to: a) advances ($ 2 ) b) to hande ($ 3) C) look for ($ 8) d) produce ($ 10) PART II: Language ( 30 marks 1. As indicared, use the right form of the words given between parentheses or the right alternative  among the words given: Telecommuung is growing in [1] (popular) [2] (In fact, Nevertheiess; On the whole , more and more telecommuters   are being recruited to do jobs that used to be restricted to the office space. Emplovers fnd that telecommuting increases productivity and improves [3] (attend) Work can be more efficient without office politics and time missed [4] (in spite of; due to Concours Toutes options Session Juin 2004 Epreuve d'Anglais Page 3/4

--- page 4 ---
thanks {0) colds Or tansportanon and tamily problems. {5] (Furthermore, However, As 'vell) employing telecommuters reauces operarng COSts Ind space. It helps recruit aa rerann good emplovees without having tO rely on [6] (locate) as a factor. That means improved quality of work ad much [7] (low) humnan resource demands for retraining and replacing personnel. [8] (Thus, Vhat 's more So thar) there are potentlal tax incentives fOr emplovers as governments are caking 4 nore active role n promotng the social and [9] (environmet) benefits of teiecommuung: [10] (Besides, Yet, In short) studies show that companes can save housands of dollars a year per 'elecommuter. 2 Supply the correct tense and verb form During scientfic investgations; scientists put together and compare new discoveries and existing   knowledge In most cases, new discoveries extend what   currently [1] (to accept). prO viding further evidence Jhat existing ideas are correct. For example; in 1676 the English physicist Robert Hooke [2] (to discover that   elasuc objects, such as metal springs; stretch in proporion to the force that [3] (to act) on them Despite al the advances that [4] (to make) Jn physics since 1676, this simple law still holds true. Scientists utlize existing kowiedge in new scientifc nvestigations t0 predict huw things [5] (to behave) Sometimes  scientific predictions g0 much further by [6] (to desczibe) objects Or events that are not vet known An outstanding instance occurred in 1869 when the Russian chemist Dmitry Mendeleyev [7] (to draw up) 2 periodic table of the elements   [8] (to arrange to illustrate pattems  of recuring chemical   ad physical   properties.  Mendeleyev   used this   table {9] (to predict) the existence ad describe the properties of several  elements unknown n his day, and when the elements [10] (to discover several years later; his predictions proved to be correct 3. Fill in the blanks with vords of your own that make sense (Use only one word per blank) Since the 1970s, an increasing number of national  and interational organizations have been established to promote rain forest conservation. (1) recent vears; two principal approaches have been used to (2) topical rain forests: stict   protection and sustainable   development. The first outright   protection through (3) development of natonal parks and preserres, has been (4) essential element in biodiversity conservation In this method of conservation entire tracis of the rain forest are set   aside and uses (5) carefully   regulated Protected areas are especially  important (6) preserving the nost   biologically distinctive rain forests (7) is; those forests   with exceptionally high species   diversity with many species erdemic to that forest. Over the last 20 years, the (8) . Of national parks in tropical countries has  increased   significantly; and today (9 5 per cent of all forests are classified under some protected status. Internatonal organizations such as the Worid Bank and the World Wildlife Fund have launched a movement M the end of the ZOth century for all countries in nhe developing world (10) set aside 10 per cent Of their forests in protected areas. PART III: Translation & Writing (20 marks) A Translate the following sentence into English (5 marks Les progrès réalises ces demières années en biotechnologie ont suscité des soucis d'ordre éthique qui pcurraient mener à ladoption dune reglenentation plus rigoureuse
B - Write about the following topic in about 15 lines 15 marks If life on Mars proved to be possible whar good aspects of life on our planet  would you like to see reproduced there and wvhich bad ones would vou rather see avoided in the fields of science and technology? Concoun Ioutes optioes Sesuon Jum 2004 Epreure d' Anglais Pise 44