--- page 1 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Ministère de 'Enseignement Superieur
4BWiY2XjJ {W2yisss biabs @jeliji Onnnil jlssjlyji 2005is
Concours nationaux d'entrée aux cycles de formation d'ingénieurs Session 2005
Concours Mathématiques et Physique, Physique et Chimie, Biologie et Géologie & Technologie dos Inso : énu4e; +: Epreuve danglais 'Jan; Diblio 4e 14880  68 Date Lundi 13 juin 2005 Heure 15 H Durée 2 H Nbre de pages : 08 Qur
Barème Part I :30, Part II: 30, Part III: 20
IMPORTANI: MastITuT Paeparatoine , 1. Lépreuve danglais comporte deux séries de feuilles OIBUOTHEQUB Les énoncés sétalant sur pages que les candidats sont appelés à garder e enre SFx Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur 4 pages, lesquelles 78*7i85 doivent être rendues à la fin de lépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2. Il sera tenu compte de la présentation (lécriture au crayon n'étant pas permise) Reading passage 1 Only the hardier forms of river life thrive in tbe salt-tainted tidal water of the River Thames. Its dirty, brown and brackish, but to Tony Rachwal its 9 reservoir of limitless potentiaL   Next month his company, Thames Water, hopes to win permission to build Northern Europe's first large-scale desalination plant, which removes salt (among other things) from water, on the banks of the river 9 few miles east of central London The idea is to turn these wretched waters where river mingles with ocean into sparkling drinking water for 900,000 London residents. We have this huge resource Op our doorstep" says Rachwal, the R&D director. *And now we have the technology to use it:"
2.
Why does rainy London need a S360 million plant that taps ocean water? London, it seems, isn't quite rainy enough per capita, its drier than Madrid or IstanbuL As the city expands, water usage is rising, and shortages threaten. Mexico City, which has a million more residents than it did 20 years ago, bas a similar problem: the city is sinking into the ground as it drains its underground aquifers. For their part, Americans are flocking to sunbelt communities and building golf courses and swimming pools.Climate change is only expected to make things worse.
3. The oceans, on the other hand, hold 95 percent of the world's water, and almost balf of the global population lives within 100 kilometers of the sboreline "There just aren't enough reserves of water" says   Pierre-François   Moizan of Dégrémont; which runs many big desalination projects; ~and seawater is always available "
4 Of course, its been possible to treat seawater on an industrial scale for 40 years  The problem with many of the older plants, though, is that they work by distilling the water and leaving behind the salt residue This process requires copious amounts of heat
Concoun NatiopuI- Scsion 2005
Eprcuve d'Apghis
Prgc 1/4

--- page 2 ---
epergy apd is too expensive for all but the ricbest and thirstiest Middle East nations Growing shortages bave created incentives t0 develop cheaper technologies. Today's favored method, 'reverse osmosis," involves pumping salt water through polymer strips. Microscopic pores let water pass but trap the salt.
5
Competition; economies of scale end better polymers bave balved the cost of producing * glass of salt-free water in the last 10 years. And prices are still falling. New plants are bcginning t0 spring up in the most unlikely of placcs, from damp Epgland to Floride Spain and Singepore. Forecasters reckon China's capacity could rise fourfokd by 2015. By building plants close to power stations operators cn resp big gains in efficiency. A DcW desalimation plant in Tampa Bay , Florida, tbe Jargest of its kind in te Wester hamisphere, takes coolant water from & ncarby power station and turns it into 25 million gallons of drinking weter 9 day. Global capacity for desalination is expected to double in tbe pert dccade, say Global Water Intelligence, % British-based research company.
6.
Water   policies   is also driving sdoption of the technology- Spain lastyear ditched umbitious plants to divert the River Ebro to drought-prone plains of the south and opted instead to build several new desalination plants. In many countries, the need for dependabke flow of fresh water has become an urgent political issue
7.
Seawater elone isn't going t0 solve the worlds water problems; bowever. Desalination is still   expepsive, end it can't do mucb for, say, Central Asia or other inland regions A cbesper alternative would be to recycle more wastewater - filtering water from the toilet back into the tap. Altbough tbe technology is iperpensive most people aren't keen on the idea: What's needed, say experts, is to persuade consumers to regard water 2s & scarce commodity in nccd of conservation: For the moment; filtering water is about tbe best solution tcchnology bas been able to provide
Newsweek March 7,2005
PART I: Comprehension Questions 30 marks
I-Complete the table on tbe answer sheet with the appropriate information from the text I -State wbetber the following are TRUE or FALSE. Justify your answers.
a) The older desalination method is affordable by both rich and poor countries alike b) The need for more drinking water in London has led to the search for other means to process river and ocean waters.
~
Mention tbree main reasons for the sbortages of water reserves world-wide
IV - Wbat makes sea water desalination 9 possible solution to water sbortages?
V = What are tbe prospects for desalination plants tbroughout tbe world ?
VI_Complete tbe statement witb information from the text
A glass of salt-free water costs half as much as it used to thanks to
Concours Natiopsux- Scssiop  2005
Eprcuvc d'Anghais
Pesc 2/4

--- page 3 ---
VII Explain te following statemept:
New plants are beginning to spring up in the most unlikely of places.
VII - Tbe writer seems to be skeptical about the use of desalination 9s * solution to water shorteges. Mention two of the argumcnts be provides against desalination
[X-Choose tbe eppropriate statemcnt which best cxpresses the main idca of the text:
a)   Recycling wastewater b)   Filtering water from the toilet back into the tap c) Desalinating for fresh water d) New ways of removing salt from water
X-Find in tbe passage words wbich bave the closcst mcaning to:
1. mix ($ 1) 2. moving in large numbers (82) 3. obtain (8 5) 4. Iare (8
XI - What do the following words refer to :
a) it (82) b) wbich (83) c) its kind ($5) d) the idea ($ 7)
PART Il: Language 30 marks )
1. Cboose the right alternative
It is astounding to compare the medical technology of today with [1] (this, that, those, one) of   1990. [2] (Then, Ago, Lately,  Before;) doctors came to one's bouse and determined one' $ illness, using [3] ( few less, 0 Little, muck) instruments   and their senses. Today, people live 30 years [4] (long, longest longer, as long) on average than their great grandparents did at the beginning of the 20" century: Many factors in public health and medical discovery contributed [5] (for, 6, %, in) this, but in no other arca [6](during; since, before, for) the industrial revolution has engineering started from such a limited base and produced such an invaluable, complex and startling number of innovations. [7] (Despite, However, Altkough, But), many advances were underway early in the century, health technologies really began to blossom in the last half; wben engineering became [8] (increasing; increased,  increase;increasinghy)  interdisciplinary , and the buman body was more fully recognized as a complex system of electrical fields, fluids and biomechanics and motion- ideal [9] (for, to, abous in) an engineer' $ approach to many of its problems. There are currently some 32,000 bioengineers [10] (work, working; worked, workers in various areas of bealth technology.
Covcour Natomau- Scsrion 2005
Eprcuve €'Angkis
Psgc Ja

--- page 4 ---
2. Supply the correct tense and verb form
Over many years; hundreds of pesticides and other chemicals [1] (run) into rivers and accumulated in the soil. This; at present, [2] (threaten) the animal species that feed on plants and other animals. Furthermore; industrial gases [3] (trap) in the atmosphere [4] (pollute) the air and cause global warming,   [5] (change) the environment of species. Habitat destruction endangers the greatest number of species. Because people [6] (need) food and shelter; the environments of many species [7] (eliminate) or reduced. Currently; people; in many places; [8] (turn) forests into farmland. Since the early 1990's, some 12 million hectares of tropical forests [9] (clear) every year. At this rate within 40 years all remaining tropical forests [10] (disappcar)
3. Choose the right form of tbe word between brackets
Many scientists now say that global climate change is underway due [1] .(primary) to the buning of fossil fuels and the resulting build-up of carbon dioxide and other 'greenbouse gases' in the atmosphere. Climate cbanges [2] (threat) human health and well-being because they cause more severe storms and droughts; rising sea levels; increased spread of [3] '(infection)- diseases, and other adverse effects. As the debate unfolds over a stronger international treaty to curtai] greenbouse gas [4] (emit). - there is much that individual people can do in their bomes and workplaces to reduce their contribution to global  [5] (warm) The good news is tbat many of these actions can save money as well as protect our environment
4. Rewrite the following sentences keeping the same meaning Bcgin each sentence as indicated on the answer sheet:
1 . It is advisable for most firms to adopt stricter environmental rules 2. You'll bave to study bard if you want to become an engineer 3 . Human cloning is being experimented with although opponents criticize it fiercely 4 Sami was not hurt because be was wearing a seat belt 5 People say Chinese food is the best in the world
PART III: Translotion & Writing (20 marks) Translate the following sentence into Englisb : ( 5 marks
De nouvelles technologies sont en train dêtre développées par des experts en matière de conservation et de gestion de ressources hydrauliques même dans les pays qui sont rarement toucbés par la sécheresse
B- Write about tbe following topic in about 15 lincs 15 marks )
In this cyber age; the increasing use of Information Technology has an impact on everything including homes. Describe what your idea] bome would look like, using the following prompts location; anchitecture, indoor appliances and furiture, services provided etc )
Concours Naüomux- Scssion 2085
Epreuvc d'Angab
Pasc &

--- page 5 ---
45 @>W14{2sod) @Ujyyusts REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
Concours Nationaur d'Entréc aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs
Signaturc des uuvcillants
MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR Session
Concours
Epreuve de
Nom
Prénoms
Total dcs doubles fcuillcs rcmises
éciire E {d (ler ,,en Institution d'origine
Identifiant
Série
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénicurs
Tolal des doublcs Icuilles remnises
_ci J6aie [ Session Juin 2005 Concours Toutes options . [erlen( Epreuve dc ANGLAIS (ANSWER SHEET). PART I :
desalination method process Previous one 39 New one E6 a) 2 b 2
advantages
drawbacks
XXXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXXXX
IV _
V

--- page 6 ---
Me rien écrire icf
VI- A glass of salt-free water costs half as much as it used to thanks to
8 XX- B X A 3 2 ; XI -
b)
2

--- page 7 ---
Nle rlen écrire Ic/
PART [I : 1
6
3
8
4
9
1 4 1 8 4 3 5 1 3
10
6
9 10
2
1 Most firms
2. You won't
3. Despite
4 If Sami had not been wearing his seat belt, he
5. Chinese food

--- page 8 ---
Ke Hen écure {el
PART III A Translation:
1 1 B Writing: 8 A 9