--- page 1 ---
4isj)288aj) "kjsigstis { LÆls Jwuibjl alLiI N Uusc ji>J| 20136
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Ministère de [Enseignement Supéricur ct de la Recherche Scicntifique
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée Jux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs Session 2013
Concours Toutes Options Epreuve &Anglais
Date Lundi 03 Juin 2013
Heure 14 HI
Durée 2 H
Nbre pages :08
Barème Part One; 30, Part Two: 30, Part Three: 20
IMPORTANI: L'épreuve danglais comporte deux séries de feuilles: Les énoncés s'étalent sur 4 pages que les candidats sont appelés à garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur 4 pages; lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de Pépreuve aux professeurs surveillanty Il sera tenu compte de la présentation, (Vécriture au crayon n'étant pas permise ; 1- Its no coincidence that the first boats full of migrants arrived at the tiny southern Italian islands of Lampedusa just two days after revolution overthrew Tunisia' s dictator  That's about how long It   takes for rickety;   overioaded shIp to CTOSS that   stretch Of   the Mediterranean Sea The arrivals were few at first small boats of a dozen Or s0 people. But in recent days; as clenched-fist stability in Tunisia gave way to democracy and then near anarchy; the ships became   larger; more crowded and more numerous According to the UN. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) , some 5,700 Tunisians have landed in Lampedusa since Jan.16 = 5,000 0f them in the past five days leaving Italian authorities scrambling to accommodate what thex describe as an exodus of "biblical proportions 3 - If Sicily is a ball being kicked by the Italian boot; the island of Lampedusa is an earth won buried deep in the soil beneath; A stretch of largely   denuded rock tucked in a comer between Tunisia and Libya; its location has long made it magnet for North Africans seeking better life or a claim for political asylum. In 2008, peak year for migration; some 31,000 illegal migrants reached Lampedusa; mostly from Libya; at a rale of roughly 600 a week far slower than what has been seen in the past few days. But in recent years, the arrivals have slowed: In 2009, Italy pressed Libya to join Tunisia in accepting financial assistance in exchange for keeping close watch on its coastlines, and the boats stopped arriving. An immigration center in Lampedusa, completed in 2007, was shuttered   just two years   later   when aggressive   patrols on  land and at sea successfully blocked migrants from arriving 5- On Sunday; however, the center was opened again and filled far over capacity . Built to accommodate 800 people; it now houses more than 2,000 migrants; many sleeping two 10 2 bed, on the floor or outside between the buildings. "It's humanitarian emergency; says Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2013 Eprcuve d'Anglais Page 1/4

--- page 2 ---
AStITUT Oneanndirs CRUTHEQUE) Iloes  SA
Simona Moscarelli; a program officer with the Intemational Organization for Migration who flew to Lampedusa in response to the crisis These peoplc nccd to eat, they need to be clothed, they need to drink. Every problem of distribution is a logistical nightmare. The arrivals include at least a dozen women handful of minors and a man in a wheelchair; but the vast majority are working-age men."There are people who say they're just fleeing poverty , says Federico Fossi; spokesman at the UNHCR "Thiere are others who say they are fleeing  from political insecurity. Some have said they left fearing armed gangs snipers in the street. A few are expected to petition Italy for asylum or to retumn to Tunisia when the country has stabilized, but the majority of those spoken to by aid workers have said they plan to move on to France, where they speak the language and often have friends OI relatives_ For now, a spate of rough weather in the southemn Mediterranean seems to have slowed the rate of new arrivals. Very few migrants arrived at Lampedusa on Monday. The question is what will happen when the skies are clear. Italy' s Interior Minister  Roberto Maroni has the collapse of the Tunisian and Egyptian govemments to the fall of the Berlin compaveae nhe colladea ondho Consianisn d LgypEas e9 Europa sparked decades of illegal immi igration. And indeed; since the fall of the Tunisian dictator; Rome has struggled to find "counterparts in the govemment in Tunis On Monday; the-Tunisian goverment rejected an armed forces to Tunisia to patrol the country's borders; but Italian   proposal  to deploy pledged t0 do more to halt the exodus pent up by years of autocracy. Dictators may be able 10 seal their borders with ease. It's another thing altogether for a democracy; never mind an unstable  transitional government Jike thc onc currently in place in Tunisia . Ihe_influx is unlikely :0 end ur anytime soon By Stephan Faris/ Rome Tuesday; Feb. 15,2011 (Time World) PART ONE Reading Comprehension (30 marks)
Select the most suitable title for the passage mark) 1-  Italy seriously considers sending Tunisian mie grants back to their country. 2 - After revolution, Italy faces floods of Tunisian migrants. 3- The Italian govemment wants to move the immigrants on to other EU mémber state
are truc or false   and   justify from the II-Say whether the following   statements passag Eapearks has always atracted North Africans dreaming of settling in Europe . 1 - 2- All migrants were men who came to Italy looking for a job they couldn't find in their country . Mention 5 reasons that urge these migrants to flee from their countries (Smarks) III -
1- Paraphrase the text and say why it was 9  real beadache for the Italian IV - authorities to handle the situation of illegal immigrants in Lampedusa? (3 marks) 2- Pick out words_or_phrases showing how much it was hard for Italy to deal with this problem. (3 marks)
Epreuvc d'Anglais
Page 2/4
Concours Toutes Options Scssion Juin 2013

--- page 3 ---
V-
1-Before the revolution, how did the government in Rome try to halt this exodus from North Africa to its lands? (2 marks)
2- After the revolution, which measure did the Italian authorities propose to the Tunisian government to stop the arrivals of migrants? (2 marks)
VI-
The majority of Tunisian migrants consider Italy just a staging point to move on to France for two major reasons. What are they? (2 marks)
VII Complete the following sentences with reference to the passage (3 marks) 1- In recent years; the Italian fight against clandestine illegal immigration from North Africa has proved effective as 2-  Despite its efficient   protective measures;   Italy decided just for humanitarian reasons. 3-A few Tunisian migrants intend to when their country regains stability .
VIII - Select the correct option (2 marks) 1- Fornow, the flow of migrants from Tunisia seems to have slowed down because:
the Tunisian authorities started controlling their territorial waters. b-the migrants were discouraged by the unfavorable bad weather conditions. the Italian government sent sea patrols to Tunisian borders .
2 - According to the passage; these huge waves of migrants striving to arrive in Italy will: a- stop when the Tunisian authorities take the problem more seriously . b- force the Italian government to close the country's borders . c-continue to pour despite the great efforts to halt them
IX
What do the underlined words in the text refer to? (Amarks) 1-They (82) 2-its ($4) 3- those ($6) 4- the influx ($7)
PART TWO
LANGUAGE ( 30 marks)
Select the correct alternative (10 marks)
The Himalayas; the world's [1] bigher most high highest) mountain range, may soon hold another record: it [2] ( will nccd could) become home to the grcatest density of dams in the world. More than a thousand are [3] neither all either) already operating; [4] (under during in) construction or [5] being been were) planned in northern India, Nepal and Bhutan .  [6] In Addition Besides Plus) providing clean energy; they could improve control and access to [7] ( drinking- drink drunk) water. [8] ( Although But Despite) they will also pose a serious threat to indigenous species. Another   recent study suggests the dams will be bad news [9] by 00 for) many of the Himalayas' 300 species of fish. Jay Bhatt and colleagues at the University of Delhi studied distribution of fish species in 16  Himalayan   rivers;   [10] and therefore then)   found that   those  richest in biodiversity , with the greatest number of endemic species; were also those where dams will be concentrated.
Copcours Toutcs Options Session Juin 2013
Eprcuve &'Anglels
Page J/4
ASntUT Cnepanafoike CloTHEOHE 

--- page 4 ---
Il =
Use the right tense or form (10 marks)
AstiTL Cruoihrqus an Ezpuaivor Saine % on Wednesday A strong earthquake [1] (shake) buildings in the Chilean and country massive but there [2] (be) no immediate reports of damage or [3] (injure) aie 8ouotz magnitude coppec rmines !] (notlaffect) The U.S Geological Survey (USGS)rsaidi The USGS [6] quake [5] (strike) 106 km south-southwest of the port city of ValparososkThhat e quake (initial) reported the quake as a 5.9 magnitude: The navy said there was no spokesman for statee rnincr Codeldy . Codelco; [7] (cause) a tsunami on the Andean nation's coastline. {8] n(produce) , said the company' $ mines [9] (operate) the world's largest copper magnitude quake and ensuing Chile was battered in February 2010 by a [10] (devastate) 8.8 billions of dollars in damage and killed hundreds of people. tsunam , which caused III- Choose the best alternative 5 marks) on man-made Many   scientists   [1] rely blame impose increcasing  temperaiurese lo and 8ny hey greenhouse emissions from [2} extracting ~ inhaling burning ) fossil flooding sea levels and extreme weather events. can lead to [3] rising measuring released in the air hit a Global carbon dioxide amounts [4] consumed evaporated commanded classified ) by China, the International Energy record high in 2011, [5] ( Ied Agency said in May. differently starting as mentioned in the answer sheet (5 marks) IV Express
This project will take us two years to complete To my mind, you should take the train instead of the bus; Provided that the spare parts arrive on time; we will be able to repair - the car. 3- Despite the strong competition; the company has made great profits. 3- Scientists hardly believe in groundless theories . PART THREE Writing Tasks (20 marks) the following statements to obtain a coherent paragraph (2.5 marks) Rearrange alto help the poor bl caused by climate change, d but much remains to be agreed upon d cope with the inevitable loss and damage el Rich countries have promised IL- Find and correct the 5 mistakes in this paragraph (2.5 marks) and causes stroke and hurt disease; Being overweight can hike a person's blood pressure and the problem isn' this two conditions are responsible of a quarter of all deaths together , limiting to the West
III - Essay (15 marks) is the only solution to solve the To many young Tunisians clandestine illegal immigration conditions problem 'oyonemployment and 10 escape poverty and hard living opinion with solid convincing arguments. What do you think about this attitude? Support your (DONOT EXCEED 15 LINES) d'Anglais Page 4/4 Epreuve Concours Toutes Optons Session Juin 2013