--- page 1 ---
~ay e[cre de [Enseignement Supeneur
{oncûü7s NationauÆ d'Entrée auf Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs Session Juin 2002
Concours Mathématiques et Physique, Pbysique et Chimie, Biologie et Géologie &Techpologie Epreuve d'Anglais
Date Jeudi 06 juin 2002
Heure ISH
Durée 2 H
Nbre pages 8
Barème Part I 30, Part I: 30, Part II: 20
MMPORIANI: 1 Lépreuve danglais comporte deux séries de feuilles Les énoncés s'étalant sur pages que les candidats sont appelés garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s' étalant sw pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues à lafin de lépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2 Ilsera tenv compte de la présentation ('écritwre au cryon n'étant pas pennise) Reading passage
1. With the development of affordable computer technology over the past two decades, coupled with the necd {or increased and faster communications the American offce place hes erperienced significant metamorpbosis. While it was once a luxury to bave your own office phone extension, it is now common {or workers to bave voice mail, personal computers; e-mail and Internet connection While these advanccs have aided productivity and busincss growth, #hex bave also created ncw concerns over corporate security efforts and the privacy rights of employecs As American workers geperate billions of €-mails and phonc calls every business day, employers are increasingly  monitoring and   cataloguing these and other employce communications . Accordipg to the Americen Management Association, 73.5 percent of major US. corporations record and monitor employec omails, computer files and phane conversations; 9s well 2s track Web sites workers visit on Bbe Internet .These companies often perceivemonitoring u He best means of limiting liabilfty and incrcasing worker productivity Companies vary 0n whether thcy inform employecs of such tactics Wbile the American Civil Liberties Union, numerous computer privacy' groups and cores of employees condemn monitoring, arguing that it violates personal privacy; Paws gardingworkplace privacy indicate differenty. Passed by Congress in 1986, thc 'ectronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) gave employers the right to monitor 'ctroniccommunications "in the ordinary course" of business   Public debate bas Iwn over the ethics and legality of employer monitoring In October 1999, California vernor Gray Davis vetoed 9 state bill that would bave prohibited companies from 'etly monitoring employee communications   Other states arc addressing similar Es of legislation nitoring the electronic communications of employecs violates their Constitutional to privacy establisbed by the Fourth Amendment Sach practiccs alienate workers Ise their stress levels and destroy company loyalty, 4 of which are detrimental t Ioates opdan Scusion Jutn 2002 EpremeTAgi Prec V <
2

--- page 2 ---
overall company performance   and customer   service Electronic communications espccially of private nature, are the property of individuals. The ECPA and several current state laws regarding worker privacy give too much authority t0 employers and are extremely antiquated. The Internet and e-mail werc barcly in existcnce wben tbe ECPA became law. New laws must be enacted to prohibit electronic monitoring and protect worker privacy-
5. The legal right of employers t interccpt the clectronic communications of employecs is invaluable to the security and success of countess companies and must be protected. Considering scveral rccent lawsuits in wbich plaintiffs sued employers oycr inappropriateoffice communiaations; many coptaining racial Or scxually   offensive materialemployers must be able to review employee communicaüons to limit #cir liability. Monitoring employec e-mails and computer bard drives combats the constant risk of internal backing and sabotage by dissatisfied workers.  Employees should be focused on company goals and customer necds wben on company time, not €-mail and Web surfing
by Bryan Knowlas June 13, 2000
PART I: Comprehension Questions on The Reading Passage 30 marks
I=Complete the table on the answer shect witb information from the pessage
II - Mention 4 techniques used by cmployers in monitoring thcir employecs
III - How is tbe need for clectronic monitoring viewed by:
Employees and privacy activists groups? b) Employers?
IV - Complete the following sentence with information from the passage
Tbe company performance and customer service &re likely to be scriously affected due to factors such as
V _ What is ECPA criticized for?
VI _ From the passage it is implied that the amcndment (tick the 'appropriate answer on the answer sbeet)
violates employees privacy b)   protects the right to privacy c) denies any right constitutionally established before it d)  regulates monitoring practices
Concur Iouta opdons Sauioo Juin 202
Eprcave d Asdais
Pge2 4

--- page 3 ---
VII - Focus on the last 2 paragraphs and find out what is proposed to protect the intercsts and rights of both employers and employees
VIII Indicate whether the following statements are TRUE or FALSE Justify your answer
a Electronic monitoring is illcgal in California b) All company employers agrec that employees should be made   aware that they arc being monitored
[X - What do the following words refer to in the text:
a) they (8 1 ) b)  tese ( $ 2 c) all of which( $ 4 ) d)  their ( $ 5 )
X - Find in the text words which have the closest meaning to:
wories ($ 1) 2 breaks (83) 3 barmful (84) very precious (85)
XI - Choose & suitable tite for the text from the following alternatives: a) Violating workers privacy through electronic monitoring b)   Increasing workers productivity through electronic monitoring c)   Increasing employers securty through electronic monitoring
PART II: Language ( 30 marks
1. Choosc the right alternative
[1] (Despite, According to, Although, Due t0) the theory of continental drif the continents are not fixed in   position but [2] even; insteadalso, only) move slowly across the surface of the earth constantly   [3]  (changed   changing   changes; unchangeable) in position relative to one another. This thcory was first proposcd in the eightecnth century[4] (when, while, where, which) mapmakers noticcd how closely the continents of the earth ft together wbcn they were matched up. It was suggested then that the present-day continents bad [5] (hence, once, such often) bcen one large continent that had broken up into pieces wbich drifted apart Today the modem theory of plate tectonics has [6] (developed achieved elaborated raised) from tbe theory of continental drif The theory of plate tectonics suggests that Concoan Ioates opdon sadoa Juai 2on Lprarve & Apghb P2y'

--- page 4 ---
the crust of the carth is divided iiiio Six large, and {7} {many, {iiile  {ess, Fiîch) Smiâll . tectonic plates that drifi on the lava that composes the inner core of the earth. These plates consist [8] (in, of, aboul, on ocean floor and continents that quite probably began breaking [9] (up, Into, oul, In) and moving relative to one another more than 200 million years [10] (since, before, past; ago)
2. Supply the correct tense and or verb form
Public- health experts used [1] (to think) that science and vigilance in bealth care [2] (to vanquish) the worst diseases. Now they know better. By cutting down forests,   [3] (to food) the landscape with vast hydroclectric dams and digging up fragile rain-forest soil [4] (to build) roads, Brazilians have given a wide variety of germs newfound opportunity   [S] (to infect) humans. Since 1973 the World Health Organization [6] (to identify) worldwide about 30 emerging diseases ailments that [7] (to become) major health threats- most of which have tured up in Brazl And it isn't just the diseases themselves that [8] (to keep) scientists awake at night but the proliferation of vectors that carry then When forests [9] (to clear) for agriculture, ranching and logging mosquitoes [10] (to breed) in the puddles of water that tend to fon on the ground
2. Fill in te blanks with words of your own that make sense (Use only one word per blank space):
Knowledge is like light:   Weightless and intangible, it can easily travel the world enlightening the lives of people everywhere. (1) billions (2) pcople stll live in the darkness of poverty unnecessarily . Knowledge about (3) to treat such simple alment (4) diarhea has  existed (5) centuries but millions of children continue to die (6) it because their parents do not know how to save (7) Poor countries differ from rich ones pot (8) because they have less capital but because they have less knowledge.  Knowledge is often costly to create, and that is why much of it. (9) created in industrial countries. But developing countries can acquire knowledge overseas as well as create their own (10). home
PART III: Translation & Writing (20 marks) Translate the following sentence into Epglish (5 marks )
On constate quc le nombre de gens qui se connectent à [Intemet ne cesse de croître à un rythme très accéléré depuis que les nouvelles technologies de l'information sont devenues plus accessibles au public.
B -Writc about te following topic in about 15 lines ( 15 marks )
Which source(s) of energy should be encouraged in the future, and why?
Coocar Ionta opdors Scsrion Juin 2
Epretve TApclab
Peva

--- page 5 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
Concours Nationaux d'Entréc aur Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs
Signanncd sycillanu
MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR Session
Concours
Eprcuve de
la Jéate Nom 8ei 1a Institudon d'originc
Prtaoms
Touldsdoublas {cullos remisa
Idcntifiant
Stric : 4 6 "Cungeweuss ^
X
Concours Nationaur d'Entréc aux Cyces de Formation d'Ingénicurs
Total &s doubles {cuilks rmnises
Jégtel |d Scssion Juin 2002 Concours Toutes options. fede Eprcuve de ANGLAIS (ANSWER SHEET) PARTI: 8 CAUSE Office place metamomplozzs 8 E 1 Advances in communications 4 b
d II
6)
IV

--- page 6 ---
Nle Yen écrre -ci
< PART II :
1 1 B ;
10
10
10

--- page 7 ---
Re rien écrife -ci
x
PART II: A - Trenslation:
B Writing:
1 78 E 9

--- page 8 ---
Re fien éckife Ic'
VI -
b
VII-
VIII
3 b) [X 78 4 8 d X-
3 .
XI -