--- page 1 ---
429'1 5i296æj) kajrzslgats guzls Jsial Libsl oUllii Naulig Nl juss Jal ) 2012 629'
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Ministere de FEnseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche Scientitique

Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs Session 2012
Concours Toutes Options Epreuve & Anglais
LsiuT TOGPARATOIRe , Qblorheque Eiupes  Saz 0 TGre
Date Lundi 04 Juin 2012
Heure 15 H
Durée : 2 H
Nbre pages 08
Barème Part One: 30, Part Two: 30, Part Three; 20
IMPORTANT: 1. L'épreuve &anglais comporte deux séries de feuilles: Les énoncés s'étalent sur pages que les candidats sont appelés à garder 3 Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur 4 pages; lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de Vépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2. Il sera tenu compte de la présentation; (écriture au crayon n'étant pas permise)
1 - The number of American students receiving subsidized lunches rose to 21 million last school year from 18 million in 2006-7, a 17 percent increase, according to an analysis by The   New York   Times of data from the   Department of Agriculture; which administers the Meals Program. Eleven states; including Florida; Nevada, New Jersey and Tennessee, had four-year increases of 25 percent or more, huge shifts in a vast program long characterized by incremental growth. The Agriculture Department has not yet released data for September and October . 2 - Thesc are very  large increases and 8 direct   reflection of the hardships   American families are facing, said Benjamin Senauer , a University  of Minnesota   economist who studies the meals program; adding that the surge had happened sO quickly that people like myself who do research are struggling to keep up with it. 3 - In Sylva; N.C. layoffs at   lumber and paper mills have driven hundreds   of new students   into the free lunch program. In Las Vegas, where   the collapse of the construction industry has   caused   hardship; 15,000 additional students   joined the subsidized  lunch program  this   fall. Around   Rochester;  unemployed   engineers and technicians have signed up their children after the downsizing of Kodak and other companies forced   them from their   jobs. Many of these formerly middle-income parents have pleaded with school officials to keep their enrollment a secret Students in families with incomes up to 130 percent of the poverty level OT 529,055 for a family of four- are eligible for   free school meals Children in a four-member household with income up to S41,348 qualify for a subsidized lunch priced at 40 cents 4 - Among the first to call attention to the increases were Department of Education officials; who use subsidized lunch rates as a poverty indicator in federal testing   This month, in releasing results of the National Assessment of Educational Progress; they noted that the proportion of the nation's fourth graders enrolled in the lunch program had climbed to 52 percent from 49 percent in 2009_crossing a symbolic watershed Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2012 Epreuve &' Anglais Page 1/4

--- page 2 ---
Schools in Conyers; Ga, east of Atlanta, the percentage of 5- In the Rockdale County 63 percent this   year from 46 students  receiving   subsidized   Junches   increased to who were never eligible before, never had a percent in 2006. "We are seeing people One of those is Sheila director of school   nutrition. need, said Peggy Lawrence, whose husband lost his job as the manager of a Dawson; 2 Wal-Mart   saleswoman reducing their income by 545,000. "We're doing whatever we Waffle House last year, 15-year-old daughter. "We a buy to save money, said Ms Dawson; who has can qualis fies for the thrifi store; we see fewer movies and this year my daughter clothes at She added, "I feel like: Hey , we were paying taxes all these reduced-price lunch. years . This is what thex were for; said some the troubled economy is the main factor in the increases , experts 6- Although a new way of qualifying students for the growth at the margins has resulted from In   2004, Congress required the meals, known as direct   certification. subsidized against records of nation'$ 17,000 school districts to match students enrollment lists enrolling those who receive food stamps for the local food-stamp agencies; directly as have the number The number of districts doing so has been rising meals program. to 14 million in 2010-11 of school-age children in families eligible for food stamps; from 12 million in 2009-10 effort is how to help all 7 - "The concern of those of us involved in the direct certification caseload of kids eligible for the meals, said these districts deal with the exploding a co-author of an Kevin Conway, a project director at Mathematical Policy Research Congress passed the  National on direct   certification. October   report to Congress commodity prices after   World War II by School Lunch Act in 1946 to  support while providing food to schoolchildren. By 1970, the program reducing farm surpluses day, about a fifth of them subsidized. was providing 22 million lunches on an average paid lunches have declined, but the subsidized portion has grown while Since then, eligible for free lunches as in not since 1972 have so many additional children become million 2010,1.3 million Today it is a S10.8 billion program providing 32 fiscal year lunches; 21 million of which are free or at reduced price November 30, 2011 Robbie Brown and Kimberley Mc Gee
PART ONE   Reading Comprehension (30 marks) I 1-What type of text is it? (2marks) b - descriptive C informative a-Argumentative 2- Justification: statements which DO NOT RELATE to the text: (2marks) II-Select the two Americans. 1-The economic crisis has affected the standard of living of many 2-Food prices have gone sky high in the USA because of the economic downtur  3-The number of students with a Jow academic performance is on the rise in the USA a social program to provide food for the 4-The American government has set up needy schoolchildren that helped to reach this finding about the IIL- Mention the different parts deceriorating social status of a growing number of Americans: (2marks) whether the following statements are true or false and justify from the IV- Say text (4marks) parents' income, are eligible for free 1-All   schoolchildren;   regardless   of their meals. up-to-date On the meals 2-It is quite difficult for a university economist to keep program. Epreuve d' Anglais Page 2/4 Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2012

--- page 3 ---
text   showing how the   economic crisis V Give four examples from the affected the American society (Use your own words) (4marks) showing that middle class parents fcel ashamed and Pick out a sentence they were forced to enroll their children for subsidized or free degraded as meals at school. (Imark) alternative (a, b or c) s0 that the statements become VII - Choose the correct relevant to the text. (2marks) in the number of schoolchildren qualifying for the subsidized 1-The increase or free meals: in the American society . a - gives an idea about the rate of poverty American authorities take drastic measures to support needy b- makes  the families . C- forces the US government to seek foreign assistance: 2-Providing free or subsidized school meals: gecommended by food experts to help schoolchildren in need. a- was resulting only from the most recent economic b- is in no way a new program crisis. the increasing number of poor schoolchildren €- will be   abandoned given across the country . the following summary with reference to the text (Smarks) VIII- Complete are receiving for the first time as their parents; many Millions of American during the qualifying of whom were once solidly middle class, have lost their children for Look for words in the text having nearly the same meaning as: (Amarks) IX- 2 - previously ($ 3) 1- difficulty ($ 3) 4- fit to be chosen ($ 7) 3- to become a member of ($ X- What do the underlined words in the  text refer to? (4marks) 2-those ($5) 3 - they ($5) then (87) 1-These (82) PART TWO LANGUAGE 30 marks)
I Select the correct alternative (10 marks) and entertainment industry websites have been [1] (erasedl The American government 'hacktivist"  group Anonymous [2] (dealtl launched/ crippled/  pirated)  after the attacks in retaliation for the [3] (closurel devastation/ prepared) a series of cyber website; which   allowed users   to [4] sale)  of Megaupload.com: The file sharing and audio files, was closed (imperceptiblyl freelyl insidiously) exchange large video with criminal ovenigcepand its operators were [5] (blamede proserheedrechacgsed) of idkliberateay interest/ indifference): They are accused copyright [6] (infringement/ from film and music firms to [8] (signal/ [7] (acquiringl ignoringl claiming) requests while making more than $175m from membership involvel remove) pirated material, Anonymous   supporters attacked the [9]   (giftsl   fees/ donations) and   advertising: of Justice; the FBI and Universal Music Group; among websites of the Department Distributed Denial of Service to [10] others . The hacktivists used a technique called a download) their targets with web traffic and effectively force (overload/   unload/ them offline. II- Use the right tense or form (10 marks) students protests as Quebec' s battle over university Four people [1] (injure) during Wednesday . Clouds of tear gas wafted tuition-fee hikes [2] (take) a nasty turn last used billy clubs to slam their way through [(3) over downtown Montreal as riot police public building. Some responded by tossing snowballs at protest] who [4] (block) a Epreuve d' Anglais Page 3/4 Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2012

--- page 4 ---
officers; Though the [5] (injury) were all minor, two rioter people one policeman and one [6] (must) be whisked away by ambulance to have their wounds [7] (treat) in hospital. Students converged Wednesday on several [8] (province)   buildings; including the liquor commission and the education minister's officecand they [9] (moment) attempted to occupy the Loto-Quebec headquarters which [10] (be) home to the organization representing university rectors.
Fill in the blanks by using the appropriate linkers from the following list. There are two additional linkers. ( 5 marks) afterwards such as 272 since however 21 also 75 whereas == furthermore According to a recent survey 80% of all TV units shipped by 2014 will be smart devices, compared to 2011, in which only 27% were Future Source Consulting has compiled the report; which (1) found that Japan leads the way in the adoption of connected TVs, with 59% of its  population's TV orders  in 2011 being smart' Penetration  in countries (2) the US and China, has now reached  29%. (3) Europe is behind the curve with 24% of sales of TVs bcing those with an internet connection. (4) demand for   connected televisions gains momentum, major  TV manufacturers are responding by making IP connectivity a standard feature in 60% to 80% of their product portfolio. (5) embedded wi-fi is expected to drive adoption moving forwards and many premium models now incorporate this feature allowing consumers to connect and use with ease.
IV- Express differently starting as mentioned in the answer sheet (5 marks) 1- Despite his extreme wealth, he does not give any donations to charity. 2 - The Fukushima nuclear plant was swamped by a tsunami which was generated by a quake. 3- Providing you work hard, you will succeed. 4- It was not necessary for you to go to a doctor. 5- Ididn't see the red lights that's why I didn't stop
PART THREE
Writing Tasks (20 marks) Rearrange the following words in order to obtain coherent sentences (2 marks) I/ of radioactive remains for years waste dangerous hundreds 2/ irreparable is thought to doing be television harm
Find and correct the 6 mistakes in this paragraph (3 marks) They are some good reasons for not allowed young children to watch more than an hour Or so of television a day . One of them is that a such restriction would unable a child to explore others activities which they might not even know about if they spent too much time staring on the television.
Essay (15 marks)
According to you; what can be done to relieve the sufferings of the poor and jobless people in Tunisia? (Write a 15-line essay in which you mention clear arguments)
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2012
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 4/4