--- page 1 ---
Ko
Ministèrc de V'Enseignement Supérieur de la Recherche Scientifique
8iasbabs 2Lp Jin Gibyi 2UBiji Bhiji Dufusiyji 20106s
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs Session 2010
Concours Toutes Options Epreuve €Anglais
Date Lundi 31 Mai 2010
Heure 15 H
Durée 2 H
Nbre pages 08
Barème Part 1 :30, Part II: 30, Part III: 20
(eSiTUT CEPARATO Coi IMPORTANT: Etures 1.L'épreuve d'anglais   comporte deux séries de feuilles SFAX @eeenkuks Les énoncés s'étalant sur 4 pages que les candidats sont appelés à garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de Vépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2. Il sera tenu compte de la présentation, (l'écriture au crayon n'étant pas permise) 1 Liquid Wood better known by the trade name Arboform is the ecofriendly replacement to Plastic.   With environmental issues such as pollution, increased CO2 levels causing global warming and depletion of oil reserves, scientists have chosen to look for eco - friendly alternatives. One_such alternative is liquid wood. Arboform is the trade name coined for liquid wood_ 2. For decades plastics have reigned the commodity and durable goods market because of their   utility  and durability. In the 2Oth Century the introduction of  plastics   found uncontested utility in every homc, industry or machinery. However today, in an eco- friendly   and environmentally conscious   decade, soupy expanse of plastic   covering approximately million square miles of the Pacific ocean is a cause of serious concern and raises alarm. 3. Plastics are neither recyclable nor are they renewable. Since plastics are derived from oil reserves, the future of plastics rests on the natural oil reserves of the world which are exponentially depleted as technology advances. Off late, pthalate softeners and heavy metals used in plastics are found to be toxins both, for the environment as well as for health. Norbert Eisenreich's group at the Fraunhofer Institute of Chemical Technology began researching a natural alternative to a material as utilitarian as plastic but more eco-friendly, since the 1900s. Through their research and scientific pursuit they invented liquid wood. Liquid wood is strong thermoplastic formulated from lignin, natural fibers and wax. It is non-toxic; bio-degradable and does pot depend on a non-eternal resource such as petroleum. Prior to the introduction of   liquid wood, bioplastics were experimented on but their manufacturing processes were found unsuited to domestic use as they had high sulfur content. 5 After  Eisenreich's  team developed liquid wood and christened with the trade name Arboform; it was further processed by Tecnaro a German company which molded and produced it in pellet form A finished product of Arboform can take the looks of plastic or even an object of polished wood. 6. Arboform is not made from felling of trees but it is manufactured from the waste products of the paper industry. The paper industry separates out the three components of wood-lignin, cellulose and hemicellulose.  Lignin is not used in the manufacture of paper as it gives paper a brownish bue. Often it is used in low quality newsprint but more often than not it is separated out with sulfite or sulfate based pulping process Concours Tontes Options Session Juin 2010 Eprcuve d'Anglais Page 1/4

--- page 2 ---
iend: suppor: To formuiate   Arboform. scientists blended lignin witn natura' fiters like flax, hemp ur jutt and mixcd it with wax. The: mixture heated or conditioned under high pressures resulted in & thermoplastic material-liquid wood or Arboform: Tc achieve low sulfur content and water proofing capabilities, the thermoplastic was subjected to high pressure hydrolysis. This eco-friendly alternative t0 plastic is produced from lignin which is abundant in renewable resource; non-toxic and biodegradable. It can be  manufactured on mass   scale as wcll as molded into any shape or form Experiments reveal that on heating or cooling it several times it can still be remolded, reshaped and recycled. It can be disposed off in the same manner as   wood-cither through incineration or  decomposition.  Hundred million tonnes of global   petroleum deiivers insurmountable amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere on combustion. 9 Therefore; incineration of plastics  results in the formation of carbon dioxide (CO2 cumulatively adds up t0 the total atmospheric C02 which results in giobal warming. It is estimated that the worldwide CO2 emissions have reached sever times higher than tbe amount that the biosphere can fix in the form of organic compounds in any given period of time. 10. For Arboform when used as an alternative bioplastic; the carbon dioxide (CO2) entcring the atmosphere on incineration  remains  unchanged It releases only that amount of carbon dioxide that the plant had originally fixed from the  environment during its growth   Tbus, the carbon cycle is   closed and not disrupted.  Liquid wood does not require any elaborate process to change its chemical composition before disposal In fact it can even be discarded off like wood. Tecnaro molded Arboform has been used in the manufacture of automobile parts, pens, speaker boxes, art forms and household goods. 11 As product   substitute   of plastic;  Arboform has better thermal and   mechanical properties than both wood and piastic put together. Wood tends to split at right angles when subjected to strain but not Arboform. It is biodegradable thermoplastic engineering material of superior quality and strength that will meet the technological demands replacing the indomitable market giant-plastic. 12. Concerned parents are already looking to replace plastic water bottles to protect their children from bis phenol A and phthalate toxins (chemicals used to harden plastics) In this flux of changing technology the use of Arboform promises 8 more eco-friendly and safer cnvironment for tomorrow _ By  Anjali_Gharpure; Buzzle com, June 34,2009
PART I: Comprehension Questions 30 marks
1_Fill in the table on the answer sbeet with information from the passage on Jiquid wood.
II - Which of the following characteristics make(s)   Arboform a viable replacement to plastic? Select the best answers and write them on tbe answer shcet. a) recyclability b) biodegradability renewability non-toxicity e) attractiveness f) low cost
III Give reasons why Arboform would be & potentially popular engineering material (apart from the environmental considerations)?
IV_Which factors led the scientists to seareh for alternatives t0 plastics?
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2010
Fpreuve d'Anglais
Fage 2/4

--- page 3 ---
Complefé the follow ving statements with information from the text: High pressure hydrolysus is applied on thermoplastic s0 that i 6 l is possible for Arboform t0 be recycled reshaped or molded  even if Despite pvomising research; the production of bioplastics before Arboform had been developed couid noi be an option because C02 emissions in the amosphere have risen t0 an unprecedented level. In fact; they
VI_State whether the followi ing are TRUE or FALSE. Justify your answers from the text
So as Arboform is produced massively, millions of trees have to be cut down.
b) Compared to traditional wood, liquid wood is not as resistant to stress.
VII - Complete the flow chart on the answer sheet with information from the passage on the production of Arboform.
VIII How does the writer explain the fact that the burning of liquid wood does not contribute to global warming?
IX What do the following words (underlined in the text) refer to?
One such alternative ($ 1 ) b) which $ 3 their $ 4 its growth 8 10 )
X - Find in the text words which have the closest meaning to:
1. exhaustion; extinction ( $ 1) 2. recently 8 3) 3. thrown away; disposed of 8 10) 4. harmless to the environment ($ 12)
PART II: Language 30 marks
1. Choose the right alternative:
Scientists[1] (can' wouldn't had better not) explain [2] how why when about 20 percent of the world' s population is born left-handed. This means that the things most people do with their right hand, the left-handed do with their left one. [3] What J Such /How many) people   eat, write and play tennis using their left hand. [4] (Thus In addition Indeed they kick the ball and score goals in football witb their left foot! This ability of left-handed people   makes it very difficult for right-handed sportsmen to compete [5] to at against) their left-handed rivals. [6] While However Therefore left-handed players are used to [7] play playing fhavc played with right-handed partners, right-handed athletes have less experience in dealing with left-handed ones. [8] On the other hand However Consequently in other aspects of life it is not easy to be a left handed person in [9] the / @ /0 right- handed world. [10] Therefore As G matter of fact Alternatively) some left-handed people try to learn t0 use their right hands even though it is very hard for them
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2010
Eprcuve €'Anglals
Page 3/4

--- page 4 ---
Supply the carrect tense and verh foran
Therc [1] (be) general  feeling that computer games were bad for you; and books were good. Now people are not so sure. Researchers [2] (find) that computer games, television and the Intemnet have become key factors in boosting children IQs up to levels never reached by past generations - The idea that intelligence can [3] (measure) was first suggested about a century ago, but at that time it was haïd to find tests that [4] (give) useful results. Over the past two decades; however; tests [5] (become) more subtle and complex   and  researchers have found that IQ scores can give good indication of what children's future exam results [6] (be) Some experts have even claimed that IQ scores can accurately predict what level of income and status young people [7] (achieve) in adult life. Why are today's youngsters doing so much better than their grandparents?  Of course, better nutrition; higher standards of living and improved education all [8]   (play) their   part in [9]   (raise) general levels of intelligence. But there seems to be more to it than that. Scientists [10] (attribute) thc change in intelligence to the complexity of modern life.
3. Use the right form of the word given between parentheses:
Assaults on   stand-alone   and [1] (network)  computers;   called cyber   attacks; are accelerating in frequency and [2] (severe) as thc world relics [3] (increase) on world wide web applications for commerce, defense, research, education and health care. In particular, governments operations have become [4] (rely  on thc Internet and are, therefore, vulnerable to a variety of attacks. As a result; the need to [5] (strong) cyber security has become a top national priority for all governments .
Whilc kecping the same meaning, rewrite the following sentences as indicated on the answer sheets
Recent studies haven't found any reliable evidence to prove that cornputer games contribute i0 long-term violence or anti-social behaviour. 2 A new system of imaging based on nanotubes can now take sharper and faster pictures 3 Iknew so little about astronomy that the lecture was difficult for me to follow _ Thanks to governmental support, researchers have been able to discover effective remedies for a number of diseases 5 Whcn shipping goods; it is advisable to use appropriate packaging:
PART III: Translation & Writing (20 marks) Translate the following into English: ( 5 marks ) Les industriels s'activent pour élaborer des techniques et des procédés de fabrication de produits bioplastiques qui n'utiliseraient pas de matières premières issues du pétrole. Ainsi, Tecnaro, une société allemande, vient de lancer un matériau dénommé Arboform Ce dernier est réalisé directement à partir du bois.
B - Write about the following topic in approximately 15 lines: 15 marks
Over time, the technology of our vehicles has changed dramatically and it will continue to evolve in the future How do you imagine the car to be, fifty years from now, in terms of safety, technology, size, speed, etc?
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2010
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 4/4

--- page 5 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE MINISTERE DE
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs
Signature des survcillants
L'ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR et de la Recherche Scientifique Scssion
Juin 2010.
Concours
Toutes options.
Epreuve de ici éqie / Nom Me Men € Institution d'origine
Prénoms
Total des doubles fcuillcs rcmises
Identifiant
Série
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs Total des doubles feuilles remises fci léo_e L Session Juin 2010. Concours Toutes options. [lerilene Epreuve de ANGLAIS (ANSWER SHEET) . PARTI :
Brand name
Date of invention
Inventors
A
Purpose Materials used in manufacturing
3 8 A M0 8 22 2
IV
V - a) High pressure hydrolysis is applied on thermoplastic s0 that
b)It is possible for Arboform to be recycled; reshaped or molded even
c) Despite promising research, the production of bioplastics before Arboform had been developed could not be an option because
CO2 emissions in the atmosphere have risen to an unprecedented level In fact, they
Concours Toutes options Session Juin 2010
Epreuve danglais
Page 1/4

--- page 6 ---
VI - a) [
b)
VII
Wax is added to the mixture
A 38 VIII A F 46 IX a) 2 g b) c) d) X- 1.
Concours 'Toules options Session Juin 2010
Epreuve danglais
Page 2/4

--- page 7 ---
PARTII :
10
10
No reliable evidencc to prove that computer games contribute to long-term violence or anti-social behaviour 2 A system can now take sharper and faster picturecs 3 . So little Without governmental support 5. When shipping goods, you
Jules options Session Juin 2010
Eprcuvc danglais
Page 3/4

--- page 8 ---
PART III A Translation:
B Writing:
3 28 2 2
Concours Toules options Session Juin 2010
Epreuve d'anglais
Page  4/4