--- page 1 ---
KLFUDLIQUL [UNIIENIE Ministère de IEnscignement Supérieu
Concours Nationaux d' Entree aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénicurs Session Juin 2001
Concours Mathématiques et Physique Physique et Chimie Biologie et Géologie &Technologie ARstiTuT 71224oR; Epreuve d'Anglais 0 CBlOTHEQUE Datc Vendrcdi 08 juin 2001 Hcurc IS H Durée 2 H Nbrc pages 8 Nghiifui
Barème Part I :30, Part I: 30, Part II: 20
IMPORTANI: 1. Lépreuve dc 'anglais comporte deux séries de feuilles Les énonces s' étalant sur pages que les candidats sont appelés à garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur 4 pages; lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de lépreuve Qux professeurs surveillants 2 Ilscra tenw compte de la présentation ('écriture @ crayon n'étant pas permise) Reading passage :
1 According to science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke, connecting every village on the globe with modern telecommunications technology would be one of the most effective ccopomic and social stimulants in bistory. Now, the spread of tcecouns networks to the remotest corncrs of thc planct promises to make this visiop * reality.
2 So far, though, according to the 1999 Human Development Report  issued by the United   Nations; information technology is actually   widening the gap between the world's haves and bave-nots; Dot parrowing it. Writing computcr programs and unraveling genctic codes bave replaced manual labor as thc path to cconomic growth and the developing world remains deprived of the skills necessary to succced in these new markets:
3 A few statistics makc this point startlingly clear. Therc are morc Internet account holders ip London tban in the whole of Africa About 80% of thc worlds population has Do access to reliablc communications and about onc-third has no aCCCss to ecctricity according to Panos Institute. And more than half the populetion in low- income countries is illiterate with a far greater proportion unable to read Epglish, tbc main language on the World Wide Wcb.
The conscquences of this technology lag are scrious because, over the next dccade 30% of the world's cconomic growth and 40% of new employment will be driven by information tcchnology- A plcthora_of pew initiatives bas emcrgcd to try to cose the gap, but opinions difier about wbat donor organizations should do to help roll out telccommunications to the developing world. The dcbate centers on prioritics: How important is Web access, for example in an area without food  and safc drinking water ? Wbilc somc bcalth workers praisc thbc conncctions that bring cbcap access to health   information, othcrg argue that they pecd   penicillin morcthan Pentium - powcred computers And for some schools; the Internct means expanding borizons, but others worry it will divert resources away from hiring teachers.
Eprcuve V'And b
Fr 1/4
Concour Tootes opdlo Sedlon Jub 2001

--- page 2 ---
5 Analysts egrcc that it is unrealistic t0 expect tbat every family can be equipped with , computer or even tbat every bome cap be linked to telccommunications infrastructure or an electricity grid. The U.N. report potes that buying % personal computer costs the average U.S. citizen about 9 montb's pay; compared to eight years' worth of Wages for 9 citizcn of  Bangledesh.  Yet innovative  expcrimcnts suggest it is possible to link the worlds rcmotcst villegcs to the Internet et affordable prices: And telecenters may bc one way to doit
Tbe idea i8 to put onc telcccnter equipped with Internet acccss phonc and fax in cach villege to supplement the roughly 9,000 privately owncd tclcsbops already operating in Africa. These telccenters can be used for training doctors in rural areas, bringing educational  materials to schools, disscminating information on crop management and setting up trade points for locals to sell products on the Internct.
7
But  ways must be found to ensure that telecenters are not mere demonstration projects that collapse wbcn funds are exhausted or key people depart Villagers will also get aCccsS to national and international job databascs; information about discasc prevention and carly warnipgs of natural disasters.   Village farmers could benefit by being able to check current market prices on the Internet, cutting out middlemen who buy at low prices and sel] at a large profit to urban populations.
By Jennifer L Schenker Time
PART I: Comprehension Questions on The Reading Passage 30 marks )
I - According to the writer; which factors sbow the wide gap in tbe field of information tecbnology betwcen the devdoping and tbe developcd countrics?
D - With reference to $ 4, what are thc developing countries' urgent concerns?
I - Statc whether the following are TRUE or FALSE ? Justify your answer with details from the text:
9) Telecommunications infrastructures are mainly restricted to developed countrics.
b) Money and skilled pcopke are essential for tdccenters to last
IV - Complete tbe tablc on tbe answer sheet with information relevant to the uscs of teecenters in tbe given ficlds
V - On thc answcr shcct; complete the following statements with information from the text
s) To get information through the Internet; a U.S. citizen may use bispersonal computcr wbereas a villager in Africa has to 8008
b) By selling their crops directly on the internct to urban populations; farmer 834
Tnnonur Tnatan nntlan Carsion lufn 2001
Rercuve &'Anrleb
Parc 2/4

--- page 3 ---
VI - Explain tbe following statement Ipformation technology is widening the gap betwcen the world's haves and bave-nots. ( $3)
VII - Wbat do thc following words refcr to ?
a) THIS VISION (81) b) THESE NEW MARKETS (82) c) OTHERS (8 4 ) d) IT ( 8 $)
VI Choose the best alternative to explain the following words : 1. Unraveling ( $8 2 ) : 4) writing b) manipulating c) making dear d) reading 2. Lag ( 8 4) : 9) advapcc b) Latcncss boom stagnation 3. Divert from ( $ 4 ) : a) turn away b) givc away throw away d) cut away 4. Disseminating ( $ 6 ): a) limiting b) informing c) giving d) sprcading
PART II: Language 30 marks )
1. Choose the right alternative among the words given betwcen brackets:
As Africa' s spokesman on biotech issues at the UN, Tewolde Berhan reported
Ethiopia has a rch [1] history story event issue but in the West its known chiefly [2] as / about /for / of ) war and famine. The question is, why famine ? That has never been asked and tbat's also the heart of the problem now, when we think about new [3] (sciences devices / technologies resources such as GM We bad those famines not [4] why / as because / only the country cannot produce food. In 1984 to 1985, the years of the [5] least most worst worse famine; northwestern Ethiopia bad beaps of grain; rotting , waiting for lorries to take them to [6] æreas surfaces countries courts where it was needed. [7} Although MMoreover If Despite ) 85% of the population is still rural with no access to financial   [8] loans needs / resources funds other than crops   [9] grown growing growth grow by families. If a bad season turns up, families bave no grain and [10] ( yet besides therefore / unlike no income So, when there is food, they can t buy it:'
Conraon Touter Obtiou - Smandoa Jidtta 2001
Epronve & Ardb
Prc34

--- page 4 ---
2. Supply the correct rense ur YEIN IUTIu
Almost & decade after the first cow [1] get ) sick, Britain   [2] ban any recycling of farm animals and stopped   [3] export ) meat-based cattle feed. Since then; the country [4] spend ) billions   [5] destroy ) cows more than 30 months old regardless of their apparent  health Now some 500,000 tons of ground carcass [6] store ) a 13 sites around the   country . Sealed tankers   [7] (transport the stuff to high-temperature incinerators. Then the asbes   [8] ( bury ). Presently , thanks to these belated efforts, British farmers   [9] report ) only 30 BSE cases a week _ down from 1,000 or more in the early 90s For - the rest of the world, the worst almost surely [10] lie ) ahead.
3, Fill in the blanks with words of your own tbat make sense
Doctors have long known ..(1) being 15 kg or more overweight dramatically (2) your risk of heart disease;  diabetes; gallbladder   disorders   and  arthritis. The (3) effective strategies for losing (4). and keeping it of, according (5). 8 1997 study of men and women who had dropped (6) least 15 kg for more than five years, consist (7) cutting back on calorie intake; while significantly boosting physical activity: Yet; only about 20% of folks (8) say that tbey are trying t0 lose weight; depend . . (9). a combination of diet and nearly daily (10) exercise in their efforts.
PART III: Translotion & Writing (20 marks)
A Translate the following sentence into English : ( 5 marks
Lintroduction de 1Internet dans les villages7 va non seulement permettre aux villageois d'être mieux informés mais également davoir accès à dautres marchés.
B- Write about the following topic in about 1S lincs 1S marks
Thanks to the   developments in communication and transpoit, differences between counties are gradually   disappearing:   To what   extent has globalization   affected Our country?
Concoan Toues opdlow Sesfon Juy 2001
Bprtuve @'Andeb
PexVi

--- page 5 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
Concours Nationaur d'Entrée aux Cycles de MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT Formation d'[ngénieurs SUPERIEUR Scssion Concoun Epreuvc de batk Nom Prboms Maiae Institution d'oritipc
Signahrc d guvculants
Touadsdoues larilla mmisss
Idctihiant :
Seric ;
Jastu7 Oore  Gavoisy
Concours Nationaux d'Entréc aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénicurs Toun&doube lallanmiss éste6) Sadon Juin 2001 Coacoun Toutes options. fa Na [Eprcuve de ANGLAIS (ANSWER SHEET).
PART I :
8 - b c d
a b
c
88 a b 7E Hcalth 8) 2 Commcrce Education Employment

--- page 6 ---
Ne ren écfife Ice
V -
a
b
78 8 iB A 1 1 2 3 4
2

--- page 7 ---
Ne Zen &cfe {GE
PART II :
6
3
8
5
10
6
2
H 3 5 76 3. 4 ; 5
8
9
10
6
8
10
3

--- page 8 ---
Mle [en écfe Ici
PNTM: [A - Trsnslation:
B Writing:
H 7B E 2