--- page 1 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Ministère de VEnseignement Supérieur, de la Recherche Scientiliquc et de la Technologie
429)4i28aa) 0jylgsts 530kel2 Uin yhsi eualji Niiusjlji 2009W
Olnqvanlenaio 0ai Uadonc Tolts
Concours Nationaux dEntrée aux Cycles de Formation 441 Session 2009 (elmrHonrr  Erlioihequs Concours Toutes Options 938 K REs  Epreuve d'Anglais Dae
Date Lundi 01 Juin 2009 Heure 15 H Barème Part [ :30, Part II: 30, Part III: 20
Durée 2 H
Nbre pages 08
IMPORTANT: 1 L'épreuve d'anglais   comporte deux séries de feuilles Les énoncés s'étalant sur 4 pages que les candidats sont appelés à garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur 4 pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de Vépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2 Ilsera tenu compte de la présentation (V'écriture @u crayon n'étant pas permise) Reading passage 1 U.S. federal investments in basic research transformed life and commerce in the 20th century. They sent us t0 the Moon and beyond, revolutionized communications; helped to   feed the planet,   reinvented work processes, and drove the remarkable economic 'growth of the post-1950s era in the United States. These advances and more grew out of the convergence between engineering and the early  2Oth-century   discoverics  in the physical sciences:. The United States can anticipate comparable   world-changing innovations in the 2lst century if education and research funding strategies are adapted to capitalize on new opportunities emerging at the convergence of the life sciences with tbe physical sciences and enginccring: 2 This next convergence follows from the elucidation of the structure of DNA in the 1950s and from subsequent fundamental discoveries in molecular and cellular biology. These discoveries created revolution in the   life  sciences   and drove the development  of recombinant DNA technology and the Iaunch of the biotecanology industry. By the mid- 1980s, the cxplosion of data from genomics and proteomics brought about a second revolution; further accelerating life science innovation. 3. Thesc revolutions sowed the seeds of a third revolution that links the life sciences with engineering and the physical sciences in powerful new ways. Many of molecular biology's founders came from the physical sciences, bringing to biology new  analytical strategies and technologies. With the evolution of data- and technology-based biology, biologists worked increasingly closely with mathematicians, engincers; and physical scientists. However, too often the rclationsbip focused simply on developing new tools, with engincers serving more as service providers rather than as true   collaborators; separately   developing analytical   technologics or computational strategies for analyzing data: With the demands for analyzing increasingly large data sets in genomics; understanding the complex network of molecular interactions in cells; and increasing resolution and accuracy in measuring and manipulating molecular and cellular events, what began as relationship of convenience has become flourishing
Concours (Toutes Options)  Scssion Juin 2009
Eprcuve d'Anglais
Pagc 1/4

--- page 2 ---
partnership tbat now is rapidly advancing life science discoveries toward practical uses for society. At the Massachusetts   Institute of Technology (MIT) tbird of the almost 400 engineering   faculty engage the life  sciences in their   research. In many   fields,   the research frontiers are populated by biologists; engineers; computational scientists, and chemists: MITs new Kocb Institute for Integrative Cancer Research includes biologists; chemists; and engineers working together to develop new strategies for cancer diagnosis; treatment;   and prevention. Here and elsewbere, labs are, for instance; engineering nanoparticles to transport cancer-fighting   agents   selectively to tumor cellss thus minimizing injury to healthy tissue. Approaches like this could become a clinical reality within 9 decade. The evolving third revolution has; not surprisingly, produced 9 new academic discipline. The field is burgeoning: in 1996, U.S. universities awarded only 220 PhD.s in bioengincering and biomedical engineering; in 2006, that figure soared to 525. 5 Today; this_convergepce is spawning new discoveries and applications in areas from biomedicine to environmental science to energy   technology. Accelerating these innovations will require many changes, from bow we teach to how we fund research. Science and engineering students need a broad, more integrated education; s0 that they can work fluently across disciplines. We must also find more effective ways to evaluate and fund interdisciplinary research in the United States,   including   specifically promoting   interdisciplinary work in the National Institutes of Heelth's (NIHs) programs for young investigators. Finally; we need to change tbe way in which grants are awarded and administered: Its peedlessly difficult to secure funding for reseerch that involves multiple   investigators, departments, or institutions. Above all The authorities and the public must be convinced that funding research that cuts across the Iife   physical and   engineering sciences is vital investment in buman bealth, environmental well-being, and ecopomic prosperity.
Abridged from SCIENCE, VOL 323,27 February 2009
PART I: Comprehension Questions 30 marks
I- Tbis passage focuses on: (Choose the right alternative and write it on the answer sheet): The contribution of physical sciences to the advances in engineering B. The impact of life sciences on bioengincering and biomedical epgineering C. Opportunities offered by the convergence of life sciences with engineering and physical sciences.
II-Fill in the table on the answer sheet with information from the text.
III- Complete the following statement with information from the text: Scientific discoveries and breakthroughs are likely to be made within the current century provided that. in order to
VI- Say whether tbe following statements are TRUE or FALSE and justify from the text:
a) Thanks to engineering in nanoparticles; it will soon be possible to treat cancer cells without causing any harm to the surrounding cells. b) Research work in bioengineering and biomedical engineering has more than doubled within a decade:
Partnersbip between epgineers and scientists working in life sciences is prompted by three main considerations. What are they?
Concours (Toutcs Optlons)  Scssion Jnin 2009
Eprcuvc d'Anglais
Page 274

--- page 3 ---
VI- What characterizes academic researcb at MIT ip scientific fields in general, and life sciences in particular?
VII- Choose  the best alternative and write it on the answer sbcet As biology evolved, a) it bas grown more independent from other disciplines. b) it bas grown more reliant on other fields. it has grown more academically- oriented.
VIII- Which recommendations are given to speed up future scientific and tecbnological innovations in the U.S.A?
IX- What do tbe following words (underlined in tbe text) refer to?
these revolutions 8 3) the relationship ($ 3) 9 here ($ 4) this convergence (8 5)
X- Find in tbe text words or phrases wbich bave the closest meaning to:
1. caused (8 2) 2.  precision (8 3) 3. grew considerably ($ 4 most importantly (8 5)
PART II: Language (30 marks) 1. Choose the right alternative:
Fears over global hunger are back; and [1] (who / whick whaf) makes them reappear are not only volatile commodity   prices, but also job   losses and plunging incomes [2](through/ around into) tbe world. If current economic conditions continue through the new year, 200 million workers, mostly in developing countries; will be pushed into [3] (thel @/a) poverty by the loss of jobs or lowered wages. Tbe world is now facing global job crisis, and, by proxy, potential food crisis: [4] (Even though Despitel Besides) agricultural commodity prices are down from their peak last summer, hunger is likely t0 increase this year in sub-Sabaran Africa, which has the world's harshest labor market and highest hunger levels; [5] (as well as eitherl both) in the Caribbean and parts of Central Asia. At a global food security summit U.N. and government officials blamed worsening unemployment and dramatically  decreasing remittances from  abroad.  [6] (Otherwise Howeverl What's more), as economies deteriorate, poorer countries are [7] (much/ less/ little)   likely to continue subsidizing  food  priœs for their own populations. The Interational   Mopetary Fund   predicts   that   emerging market GDP   (Gross Domestic Product) growth [8] (must had betterl may) fall to 2% in 2009 from 3% last year. That's problematic; [9] Ged so thav because) food prices are likely to begin soaring again toward the end of this year or early next. Agricultural goods, [10] (unlikel in spite ofl besides) other commodities; are still more expensive noW than they were 12 months ago, before the first food crisis began.
Concours (Toutcs Options)- Scssion Juin 2009
Eprcuve d'Angbaje
Psge  314

--- page 4 ---
2. Supply the correct tense and verb form:
The Earth's orbit [1] (get) crowded. The past few years [2] (witness) huge growth in the number of satellites. Unfortunately, wherever civilization ventures it [3] (leave) a trail of rubbish. Of the 18,000 tracked objects travelling around the Earth that are larger than 10 cm (4 inches), only about 900 are active satellites. The rest [4] (be) debris ~everything paint to entire dead satellites and bits of old rockets. That is quite from fragments of enough trash; without needlessly [5] (create) vastly more of the stuff by smashing up satellites. Yet the destruction of the Chinese  Fengyun-IC in an   anti-satellite missile, which [6] (test) in 2007, [7] (account) for more than 9 quarter of all catalogued objects in low-Earth orbit. Space junk is dangerous. Anything larger than a fleck of paint [8] (pose) hazard to the useful working satellites that surround the Earth; and on which the world increasingly depends for communications; broadcasting and surveillance; Space waste is not biodegradable. You cannot sweep it up: Instead; it [9] (stay) in orbit for decades; or even centuries, before it eventually [10] (fall) to earth and burns up. 3. Use the right form of the word given between parentheses: Of all the scientific breakthroughs of the late twentieth century, undoubtedly the one that proved most [1] (controversy) was the cloning of Dolly the sheep in Scotland in 1997; More than twenty years had gone by since the first successful 'in vitro [2] (fertile) and transfer  at the [3] (embryo) stage that led to the birth of 'Baby Louise Despite the that genetic engineering   might   offer, many people had doubts about the benefits of than   natural means and the potential   dangers of reproduction humans   by other unscrupulous   individuals   learning the  techniques and applying them for   profit.  [4] (Physics) had received similar reactions when they first succeeded in splitting the atom. People feared that this development would lead to the creation of nuclear weapons which would [5] (tbreat) humanity. They were not wrong. The Second World War ended with the use of these terrible weapons of mass destruction. While keeping tbe same meaning, rewrite the following sentences as indicated on the answer sheet. 1 Efforts to secure sustainable economic growth in Sub-Saharan Africa have not achieved any significant results. 2. Unless we use a method that is proven at a wide scale; our results will not be credible. 3. There has been a world energy crisis because renewable sources of energy have not been sufficiently developed. 4. People do not read as much as they used to many years ag0, 5 Our new assembly line is fully automated. It is also cost-effective.
PART III: Translation & Writing (20 marks) A Translate the following into English (5 marks Au cours des dernières années; une plus grande convergence des différentes branches de la science et de la technologie commencé à prendre forme. Cette approche risque de modifier profondément notre rapport au monde. C'est ainsi que des applications de plus en plus innovatrices vont voir le jour, annonçant une nouvelle révolution scientifique et technologique avec des consequences considérables sur ]environnement; la santé et la vie en société_ B Write about the following topic in approximately 15 lines (15 marks) New information and communications technologies are said to have brought in our liyes as much comfort and convenience as stress and complexity. What is your opinion? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. Scssion Juin 2009 Epreuve d'Anglais Page 4/4 Concours (Toutes Options) 

--- page 5 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT Supérieur, de la Recherche Scientifique et de La Technologie
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs
Signature des survcillants
Session
Juin 2009 _
Concours
Toutes options.
Epreuve de ici éqie/ Nom JMe [ iel Institution d'origine
Prénoms
Total dcs doubles feuilles remises
Identifiant
Série
X
Concours Nationaux dEntrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs Total des doubles {euilles remiscs Ici éqire / Session Juin   2009 Concours Toutes options. [erane Eprcuve dc ANGLAIS (ANSWER SHEET). PART I :
A9 Period Focal interest 5 Elucidation of DNA and 8 First 1950s subsequent discoveries in revolution molecular and cellular biology A) F Second 5i Explosion of data from F revolution genomics and proteomics
Consequences
2
Third revolution
21st century
ILI Scientific discoveries and breakthroughs are likely to be made within the current century
provided that
in order to
Concours Toutes options Session Juin 2009
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 1/4

--- page 6 ---
1e rlel ecfire [cI
IV a) [
b)[
1
2
3
8 VI VII 7B VIII 1. 2_ 2 8 IX - a) b) c)
2
7
1.
Concours Toutes options Session Juin 2009
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page

--- page 7 ---
WMs Ifishi (SSuur WSU
PART II : 1_
38 2. 28 A 2 3
10
10
1. No significant results 2. Unless we use a 3. Had
method, our results will not be credible
Many years ago, people used to 5 In addition to
Concours Toutes options Session Juin 2009
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 3/4

--- page 8 ---
WMe Diew @Siwfe NSA
X PART III A Translation:
B - Writing:
1 1 5 7 1 8 ;
Concours Toutes options Session Juin 2009
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 4/4