--- page 1 ---
35423'} 152942j) #ljxlrlssus @aa5l Jsia Zuibsll aLlalisl Caudis } Cuss Jal>u 20126184 uT Korararoine _ Bibuohheque
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Ministère de 1'Enscignement Supérieur ct de la Recherche Scientifique
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d' Ingénieurs Session 2012
Concours Toutes Options Epreuve €Anglais
[Date Lundi 04 Juin 2012
Heure 15 H
Durée 2 H
Nbre pages :08
Barème Part One: 30, Part Two: 30, Part Three: 20
IMPORTANT: L'épreuve æanglais comporte deux séries de feuilles: Les énoncés s' étalent sur 4 pages que les candidats sont appelés garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) 'étalant sur pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de Fépreuve aux professeurs surveillants Il sera tenu compte de la présentation; (écriture au crayon n'étant pas permise)
1 - The number of American students receiving subsidized lunches rose to 21 million last school year from 18 million in 2006-7 17 percent increase; according to an analysis by The New York Times of   data from the   Department of   Agriculture; which administers the Meals Program:. Eleven states, including Florida, Nevada, New Jersey and Tennessee, had four-year increases of 25 percent or more, huge shifts in a vast program long characterized by incremental growth. The Agriculture Department has not yet released data for September and October. 2 - Thesc are very large increases   and a  direct reflection of the hardships  American families  are facing;' said Benjamin Senauer, University of Minnesota economist who studies the meals program; adding that the surge had happened so quickly ~that people like myself who do research are struggling to keep up with it 3- In Sylva, N.C., layoffs at   lumber and paper   mills have  driven hundreds of new students   into the free lunch program: In Las   Vegas; where the collapse of the construction   industry has caused hardship;   15,000   additional students   joined   the subsidized lunch program this   fall. Around  Rochester,  unemployed   engineers and technicians have signed up their children after the downsizing of Kodak and other companies   forced   them from their jobs. Many of  these   formerly middle-income parents have pleaded with school officials to keep their enrollment a secret Students in families with incomes up to 130 percent of the poverty level or $29,055 for family of four- are eligible   for free school meals . Children in four-member household with income up to $41,348 qualify for a subsidized lunch priced at 40 cents 4- Among the first to   call attention to the increases were Department   of Education officials; who use subsidized lunch rates as a poverty indicator in federal testing: This month, in releasing results of the National Assessment of Educational Progress; they noted that the proportion of the nation's fourth graders enrolled in the lunch program had climbed to 52 percent from 49 percent in 2009, crossing a symbolic watershed. Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2012 Epreuve &' Anglais Page 1/4

--- page 2 ---
5- In the Rockdale County Schools in Conyers; Ga., east of Atlanta, the percentage of students   receiving   subsidized lunches   increased to 63 percent   this year  from 46 percent in 2006. "We are seeing people who were never eligible before; never had need, said Peggy Lawrence, director of school nutrition. One of those is Sheila Dawson, Wal-Mart saleswoman whose husband lost his job as the manager of Waffle House last year, reducing their income by 345,000. "We're doing whatever we can to save money, said Ms Dawson; who has 15-year-old daughter. <We buy clothes at the thrift store; we see fewer movies and this year my daughter quali fies for reduced-price lunch She added, ~I feel like: Hey, we were paying taxes all these years. This is what thex were for 6- Although the troubled economy is the main factor in the increases, experts said, some growth at the margins has resulted from a new way of qualifying students for the subsidized   meals, known as direct certification In 2004 Congress   required   the nation's 17,000 school districts to match students enrollment lists against records of local food-stamp agencies; directly enrolling those who receive food stamps for the meals program. The number of districts doing so has been rising as have the number of school-age children in families eligible for food stamps; to 14 million in 2010-11 from 12 million in 2009-10. 7 - "The concern of those of us involved in the direct certification effort is how to help all these districts deal with the exploding caseload of kids eligible for the meals, said Kevin Conway; project director at Mathematical Policy Research, co-author of an October   report to Congress on  direct   certification   Congress   passed the   National School   Lunch Act in 1946 to support  commodity   prices   after World War II by reducing farm surpluses while providing food to schoolchildren:. By 1970, the program was providing 22 million lunches on an average day; about a fifth of them subsidized. Since then, the subsidized portion has grown while paid lunches have declined, but not since 1972 have so many additional children become eligible for free lunches as in fiscal year 2010, 1.3 million. Today it is a $10.8 billion program providing 32 million lunches; 21 million of which are free or at reduced price November 30, 2011 Robbie Brown and Kimberley Mc Gee
PART ONE Reading Comprehension (30 marks) I- 1-What type of text is it? (2marks) a-Argumentative b- descriptive € informative 2- Justification: II-Select the two statements which DO NOT RELATE to the text: (2marks) 1-The economic crisis has affected the standard of living of many Americans. 2-Food prices have gone sky high in the USA because of the economic downturn. 3-The number of students with a low academic performance is on the rise in the USA 4-The American government has set up a social program to provide food for the needy schoolchildren. Mention the different parts that helped to reach this finding about the deteriorating social status of a growing number of Americans. (2marks) IV- Say whether the following statements are true or false and justify from the text (Amarks) 1-All   schoolchildren;  regardless   of their parents'   income; are eligible for free meals 2-It is quite difficult for university economist to keep up-to-date on the meals program
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2012
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 2/4

--- page 3 ---
Give four  examples   from the text showing how the economic crisis affected the American society (Use your own words) (4marks) VI - Pick out a sentence showing that middle class parents feel ashamed and degraded as they were forced to enroll their children for subsidized or free meals at school. (Imark) VII- Choose the correct alternative (a, b or c) so that the statements become relevant to the text. (2marks) 1-The increase in the number of schoolchildren qualifying for the subsidized or free meals: à - gives an idea about the rate of poverty in the American society . b- makes the American   authorities take drastic measures to support needy families forces the US government to seek foreign assistance. 2-Providing free or subsidized school meals: a- was recommended by food experts to help schoolchildren in need. b- is in no way a new program resulting only from the most recent economic crisis. will be abandoned given the increasing number of poor schoolchildren across the country . VIII - Complete the following summary with reference to the text (Smarks) Millions of American are receiving for the first time as their parents; many of whom were once solidly middle class, have lost during the qualifying their children for IX- Look for words in the text having nearly the same meaning as: (Amarks) 1- difficulty ($ 3) 2- previously ($ 3)
3- to become a member of ($ 4- fit to be chosen ($ 7) X What do the underlined words in the text refer to? (4marks) 1-These (82) 2- those ($5) 3- they (85) 4- then (87)
PART TWO
LANGUAGE 30 marks)
I Select the correct alternative (10 marks) The American government and entertainment industry websites have been [1] (erased/ crippled/   pirated)   after the ~hacktivist group  Anonymous [2] (dealtl  launched/ prepared) a series of cyber attacks in retaliation for the [3] (closurel devastation/ sale) of   Megaupload.com. The file sharing  website; which allowed userS to [4] (imperceptibly/ freely/ insidiously) exchange large video and audio files, was closed overnight  and its operators were [5] (blamed/ prosecuted/  charged) with criminal copyright [6] (infringement/ interestl indifference); They are accused of deliberately [7] (acquiringl ignoringl claiming) requests from film and music firms to [8] (signall involvel remove) pirated material, while making more than $175m from membership [9]   (giftsl   fees/   donations) and   advertising: Anonymous   supporters   attacked the websites of the Department of Justice; the FBI and Universal Music Group, among others The hacktivists used a technique called Distributed Denial of Service to [10] (overload/  unload/   download) their targets   with web traffic and effectively force them offline.
II- Use the right tense or form (10 marks) Four people [1] (injure) during students' protests as Quebec's battle over university tuition-fee hikes [2] (take) a nasty turn last Wednesday. Clouds of tear gas wafted over downtown Montreal as riot police used billy clubs to slam their way through [(3) protest] who [4] (block) a public building :  Some responded by tossing snowballs at Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2012 Epreuve d' Anglais Page 3/4

--- page 4 ---
officers. Though the [5] (injury) were all minor; two people one policeman and one rioter [6] (must) be whisked away by ambulance to have their wounds [7] (treat) in hospital. Students   converged Wednesday on several [8] (province)   buildings; including the liquor commission and the education minister' s office; and they [9] (moment) attempted to occupy the Loto-Quebec headquarters which [10] (be) home to the organization representing university rectors
III
Fill in the blanks by using the appropriate linkers from the following list. There are two additional linkers: 5 marks)
afterwards such as since however also whereas furthermore According to a recent survey 80% of all TV units shipped by 2014 will be smart devices; compared to 2011, in which only 27% were. Future Source Consulting has compiled the report, which (1) found that Japan leads the way in the adoption of connected TVs; with 59% of its  population' s TV orders in 2011 being smart' Penetration in   countries (2) the US and China, has now reached   29%. (3). Europe is behind the curve with 24% of sales of TVs being those with an internet connection. (4) demand for  connected televisions gains momentum;   major TV manufacturers are responding by making IP connectivity a standard feature in 60% to 80% of their product portfolio. (5). embedded wi-fi is expected to drive adoption moving forwards and many premium models now incorporate this feature allowing consumers to connect and use with ease
IV- Express differently starting as mentioned in the answer sheet (5 marks) 1 - Despite his extreme wealth, he does not give any donations to charity. 2 - The Fukushima nuclear plant was swamped by a tsunami which was generated by a quake. 3- Providing you work hard, you will succeed. 4 - It was not necessary for you to go to a doctor 5- Ididn't see the red lights that's why I didn't stop
PART THREE
Writing Tasks (20 marks)
Rearrange the following words in order to obtain coherent sentences (2 marks) I/ of radioactive remains for years waste dangerous hundreds 2/ irreparable is thought to doing be television harm
Find and correct the 6 mistakes in this paragraph (3 marks) They are some good reasons for not allowed young children to watch more than an hour Or so of television day . One of them is that such restriction would unable child to explore others activities which they might not even know about if 'they spent too much time staring on the television.
III- Essay (15 marks) According to you; what can be done to relieve the sufferings of the poor and jobless people in Tunisia? (Write a 15-line essay in which you mention clear arguments)
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2012
Epreuve d' Anglais
Page 4/4