--- page 1 ---
KLYUDLIQUL UIVSIENNVE Ministère de IEnscignement Supérieur
oncours Nationaux d'Entree aux Cycles de Formation dIngénicurs Session Juin 2001
Concours Mathématiques et Physique Physique et Chimie, Biologie et Géologie &Technologie Orstitut 615240;) Epreuve d'Anglais CQVOTHEQUE Date Vendrcdi 08 juin 2001  Hcure ISH Duréc 2 H Nbrc pages GiFi
Barème Part I :30, Part I: 30, Part III: 20
IMPORTANI: 1. Lépreuve danglais  comporte deux séries de feuilles Les énonces s'étalant sur pages que les candidats sont appelés à gardcr Les feuilles réservées awx réponses (Answer sheets) s' étolant sur pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de lépreuve @ux professeurs surveillants 2 Ilsera tenw compte de la présentation 'écriture @ crayon n'étant pas permise) Reading passage
According to science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke; connecting every village on the globe with modern telecommunications technology would be one of the most effective ccopomic and social stimulants in bistory. Now, the spread of tclecouns networks to thc remotest corners of the planet promises to make this_visiop * reality.
2 So far, though, according to the 1999 Human Development Rcport issued by the United   Nations, information technology is actually  widening thc gap between the world's haves and bave-nots; Dot parrowing it. Writing computcr programs and unraveling genctic codes have replaced manual labor a3 thc path to cconomic growth and the developing world remains deprived of the skills neccssary to succccd in thesc new markets:
3 A few statisticsmake this point startlingly clear. Therc arc morc Internet account holders in London tban in the whole of Africa About 80% of the world's population hasDo acce8sto reliablc communications and about onc-third has no acccss to elcctricity, according to Panos Institute. And more than half the populetion in low- income countries is illiterate, with a far greater proportion unable to read English, tbc main language on the World Wide Wcb. The conscquences of this tcchnology lag are serious because, over the next decade 30% of the world's cconomic growth and 40% of new employment will be driven by information technology. A plcthora_of new initiativcs bas cmcrgcd to try to closc thc gep, but opinions dificr about wbat donor organizations sbould do to help roll out telecommunications t0 the developing world: The debate centers on prioritics: How important is Web access, for example in an area without food and safc drinking watcr Wbile some bcalth workers praisc thc conncctions that bring cbcap access to health   information, @thcrg arguc that they necd   penicillin more thanPentium - powercd computers And or some schools; the Internet means expanding borizons; but others worry it will divert resources away [rom hiring teachers.
Conncoar Tocte ous Scddon Jut 2001
Eprcuve /'Andb
Frc 1/4

--- page 2 ---
5 Analysts egrce that it is unrealistic to expect tbat every family can be equipped with computer or cven tbat cvery bome can be linked to telecommunications infrastructure or an electricity grid. The U.N. report notes that buying personal computer costs the average U.S. citizen about 9 month's pay; compared to eight years' worth of wagcs for citizcn of   Bangladesb. Ycts ipnovative   cxpcrimcnts suggcst it is possible to link the wonld's remotcst villagcs to the Interet et affordable prices. And tdlecenters may bc onc way to doit
Tbe iden is to put one telccentcr equipped with Intcrnct acccsS, pbonc and fax in cach villege to supplcmcnt thc roughly 9,000 privately owncd telcsbops alrcady opcrating in Africa These tdecenters can bc used for training doctors in rural arcas; bringing educational  materials to schools, disscminating information on crop management and setting up trade points for locals to sell products on thc Interet.
Butways must be found to ensure that teecenters are not mere   demonstration projects that collepse whcn funds are exhausted or key pcople dcpart villagers will elso get acccss to national and international job databasca; information about discase prevention and carly wernings of patural  disastcrs. Villagc farmcrs could benefit by being able to check currcnt market prices op the Intcrnets cutting out middlemen who buy at low priccs and sell at a large profit to urban populations.
By Jenpifer L. Schenker Time
PART I: Comprehension Questions on The Reading Passage 30 marks_ 1 - According to the writcr, which factors sbow the wide gap in the ficld of information techpology bctwcen the 'developing and tbe developcd countrics? 1 - Witb refcrencc to $ what arc thc developing countries' urgent concerns?
m Statc whctber the following = are TRUE or FALSE Justify your answer with details from the text:
Telecommunications infrastructures are mainly restricted to developed countrics.
b) Money and skilled pcopkc are essential for tdccenters to last
IV - Complete the table on the answer shcet with information relevant to the uscs of tdecenters in tbe given ficlds
V On thc answcr shcct; complcte the following statcmcnts with information from the text
To get information through the Internet U.S citizen may usc his personal computcr wbereas villager in Africa has to
b) By selling their crops directly on the internct to urban populations; farmer 8000
nntlan Curl Indtz 2001
Rorave €'Anzlob
Panc 24

--- page 3 ---
VI Explain the following statement
Information technology is widening the gap between the world's haves and bave-nots. 83)
VII - Wbat do thc following words refcr to ?
THIS VISION ($1) b) THESE NEW MARKETS   ($ 2) OTHERS ($ 4 ) d) IT (85)
VII Choose the best alternative to explain thc following words 1 Unraveling ( $ 2 ) : 'writing b) manipulating making dcar 2 Lag (8 4) : advance b) Latcncss boom 3. Divert from ( $ 4) : turn away b) givc away throw away Disseminating $6): a) limiting b) informing 9 giving
reading stagnation cut away sprcading
PART II: Language 30 marks )
1. Choose the right alternative among the words given betwcen brackets:
As Afica' s spokesman on biotech issues at the UN, Tewolde Berhan reported
Ethiopia has rich [1] history story event issue ) but in the West its known chiefly [2] as about /for  of ) war and famine. The question is, why famine ? That has never been asked and thats also the heart of the problem now; when we think about new [3] (sciences devices 'technologies resources such as GM. We bad those famines not [4] why _ as because only the country cannot produce food In 1984 to 1985, the years of the [5] least most worst worse famine northwester Etbiopia had beaps of grain rotting waiting for lorries to take them to [6] areas surfaces countries courts where it was needed_ [7] Although MMoreover / If ~ Despite 85% of the population is still nura] with no access to financial   [8] ( loans _ needs resources funds other than crops   [9] grown growing growth grow by families If a bad season turns up, families have no grain and [10] ( yet besides / therefore  unlike no income So, when there is food, they can't buy it.
Kinn Stsndon Jdde 2001
Epronved'Andb
PeV4

--- page 4 ---
2. Supply tne corrccr (cose Ur YeIV ITu
Almost a decade after the first cow [1] get sick, Britain   [2] ban any recycling of farm animals and stopped [3] expont meat-based cattle feed.  Since then, the country [4] spend billions   [5] destroy ) cows more than 30 months old regardless of their apparent  bealth Now some 500,000 tons of ground carcass (6] store ) a 13 sites around the   country. Sealed tankers   [7]   (transport the stuff to high-temperature incinerators. Then the asbes  [8] bury ). Presently, thanks to these belated efforts; British farmers   [9] report ) only 30 BSE cases a weck down from 1,000 or more in the early 90s For the rest of the world, the worst almost surely [10] ( lie ) ahead
3. Fill in the blanks with words of your own that makc sensc
Doctors bave long known (1) _ being 15 kg or more overweight dramatically (2) your risk of heart disease;  diabetes  gallbladder   disorders   and   arthritis. The (3) effective strategies for losing_ (4) and keeping it of; according (5).- 1997 study of men and women who had dropped (6). least 15 kg for more than five years, consist (7). cutting  back on celorie intake; while significantly boosting physical activity: Yet; only about 20% of folks (8). say that they are trying to lose weight, depend (9). combination of diet and nearly daily (10)  exercise in their efforts.
PART III: Translation Writing (20 marks)
A Translate tbe following sentence into English (5 marks ) Lintroduction de [Internet dans les villages va non seulement permettre aux villageois d'être mieux informés mais également d'avoir accès à dautres marchés
B - Write about the following topic in about 15 lincs (1S marks )
Thanks to the developments   in   communication and   transport, differences between countries  are gradually disappearing:   To what   extent has   globalization affected our country?
Concoar Iontes optlons Sendon Judu 2001
Eprtuve d'Andee
Pun V4

--- page 5 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
Concours Netionaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT Formation d'Ingénieurs SUPERIEUR Scssion Concour Eprtuve de latok) Nom Prboms aadwe Institution d'orifipe
Signalurc ds survculuns
Toudsdoe farlla rcmisas
Idcntihant
Seric
Gtruz C9uondy
Concours Nationawx d'Entréc aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénicurs Tou &doubes lcuilla nmises botel) Scdon Juin 2001 Concoun Toutes 'options. Hata Epreuve de ANGLAIS   (ANSWER SHEET)
PART I :
8 - 6
II d 88 DI 7E Hcalth 8)  Commcrce Education Employment

--- page 6 ---
Me rien écrile Ice
VI
H ZB # 1 2. 3
2

--- page 7 ---
Ne ten &crfe {c
PART II :
10
H 7e 4 ;
10
10

--- page 8 ---
Ne [len écfire Icf
PAXTI: Tronslation:
B Wriüng:
H 78 4 2