--- page 1 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Ministère de F'Enseigncmcnt Supérieur, de la Recherche Scientiliquc et de la Technologie Hji i
9-4914228ad) @Y2ælgsts Yss@b ~L5s Jin Yibsi 2i,bliji Uuantni OufjlJi 2009?
Oinqvanlenaio 0a/ Ual
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation 8 Ingépieprs Session 2009 IxsTTT fOR ErloiheQue Concours Toutes Options S IRes  Epreuve dAnglais Da
Date Lundi 01 Juin 2009 Heure 15 H Barème Part I :30, Part II: 30, Part III: 20
Durée : 2 H
Nbre pages 08
IMPORTANT: 1 L'épreuve danglais   comporte deux séries de feuilles Les énoncés s'étalant sur pages que les candidats sont appelés à garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur 4 pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de Vépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2 Ilsera tenu compte de la présentation (écriture %u crayon n'étant pas permise) Reading passage 1. U.S. federal investments in basic research transformed life and commerce in the 20th century. They sent us to the Moon and beyond, revolutionized communications, helped to   feed theplanet;   reinvented work processes, and drove the remarkable economic 'growth of the post-19508 era in the United States. These advances and more grew out of the  convergence between   engineering and the early 2Oth-century   discoveries in the physical sciences: The United States can anticipate comparable world-changing innovations in the 21st century if education and research funding strategies are adapted to capitalize on new opportunities emerging at the convergence of the life sciences with the physical sciences and engineering. 2. This next convergence follows from the elucidation of the structure of DNA in the 1950s and from subsequent fundamental discoveries in molecular and cellular biology. These discoveries created a revolution in the   life   sciences and drove the   development  of recombinant DNA technology and the launch of the biotecanology industry  By the mid- 1980s, the explosion of data from genomics and proteomics brought about a second revolution, further accelerating life science innovation. 3. Ihesc rcvolutions sowed the seeds of a third revolution that links the life sciences with engineering and the physical sciences in powerful new ways. Many of molecular biology's founders came from the pbysical sciences, bringing to biology new analytical strategies   and technologies.  With the   evolution of data- and technology-based biology, biologists  worked increasingly closely  with mathematicians, engincers, and physical scientists. However, to0 often the_rclationship focused simply on developing new tools, with engineers serving more as service providers rather than as true   collaborators, separately developing analytical   technologies or computational strategies for analyzing data: With the demands for analyzing increasingly large data sets in genomics, understanding the complex network of molecular interactions in cells; and increasing resolution and accuracy in measuring and manipulating molecular and cellular events, what began as a relationship of convenience has become a flourishing Concours (Toutes Options) - Session Juin 2009 Eprcuve d'Anglais Pagc 1/4

--- page 2 ---
partnership that pow is rapidly advancing life science discoveries toward practical uses for society . 4, At the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) 8 tbird of the almost   400 engineering  faculty engage the   life sciences in their research. In many   fields,   the research frontiers are populated by biologists, engineers; computational scientists; and chemists; MITs new Kocb Institute for Integrative Cancer Research includes biologists; chemists, and engineers working together to develop new strategies for cancer diagnosis; treatment; and prevention. Here and elsewhere,  labs are, for instance;  engineering napoparticles to transport cancer-fighting   agents   selectively to tumor cellss thus minimizing injury to healthy tissue. Approaches like this could become a clinical reality within 9 decade. The evolving third revolution has, not surprisingly, produced a new academic discipline. The field is burgeoning: in 1996, U.S. universities awarded only 220 PhD.s in bioengineering and biomedical engineering; in 2006, that figure soared to 525. 5 Today, tbis_copvergence is spawning new discoveries and applications in areas from biomedicine to environmental science to energy technology. Accelerating these innovations will require many changes; from bow we teach to how we fund research. Science and engineering students need a broad, more integrated education; s0 that they can work fluently across disciplines. We must also find more effective ways to evaluate and fund interdisciplinary research in the United States,   including specifically promoting interdisciplinary work in the National Institutes of Healtb's  (NIFHs) programs for young investigators. Finally, we need to cbange the way in which grants are awarded and administered: Its needlessly difficult to secure funding for research that involves multiple investigators,   departments, or institutions. Above all The authorities and the public must be convinced that funding research that cuts across the life, physical; and engineering sciences is 8 vital investment in human health, environmental well-being, and economic prosperity.
Abridged from SCIENCE, VOL 323, 27 February 2009
PART I: Comprehension Questions 30 marks
I- Tbis passage focuses on: (Cboose tbe right alternative and write it on the answer sheet): A. The contribution of pbysical sciences to #he advances in engineering B. The impact of life sciences on bioengineering %nd biomedical engincering C. Opportunities offered by the convergence of life sciences with engincering and physical sciences.
II- Fill in the table on the answer sheet with information from the text
III- Complete the following statement with information from the text Scientific discoveries and breakthroughs are likely to be made within the current century provided that . in order to_
VI- Say whether tbe following statements are TRUE or FALSE and justify from the text:
a) Thanks to engineering in nanoparticles; it will soon be possible to treat cancer cells without causing any harm to the surrounding cells. b) Research work in bioengineering and biomedical engineering has more than doubled within a decade.
Partnership between engineers and scientists working in life sciences is prompted by three main considerations. What are they?
Concours (Toutes Options) Scssion Jnip 2009
Eprcuvc d'Anglais
Pagc 2/4

--- page 3 ---
VI- What characterizes academic researcb at MIT in scientific fields in general, and life sciences in particular?
VII- Choose   the best alternative and write it on the answer sbeet As biology evolved, a) it bas grown more independent from other disciplines. it has grown more reliant on other fields. it has grown more academically- oriented:.
VIII- Wbich recommendations are given to speed up future scientific and tecbnological innovations in the U.S.A?
IX- What do tbe following words (underlined in the text) refer to?
a) these revolutions ($ 3) b) the relationship ($ 3) c) here (8 4) d) this convergence (8 5)
X- Find in tbe text words or phrases wbich bave the closest meaning to:
1. caused (8 2) 2. precision ($ 3) 3. grew considerably ($ 4) 4. most importantly ($ 5)
PART II: Language (30 marks) 1. Choose the right alternative:
Fears over global hunger are back; and [1] (who / whick what) makes them reappear are not only volatile   commodity prices, but also   job losses and   plunging incomes [2] (through/ around into) the world. If current economic conditions continue through the new year, 200 million workers; mostly in developing countries, will be pushed into [3] (thel @/0) poverty by the loss of jobs or lowered wages. The world is now facing a global job crisis, and, by proxy, à potential food crisis. [4] (Even thoughl Despitel  Besides) agricultural commodity prices are down from their peak Last summer, hunger is likely t0 increase this year in sub-Sabaran Africa, which has the world's harshest labor market and bighest hunger levels; [5] (as well as/ eitherl_ both) in the Caribbean and parts of Central Asia. At a global food security summit; U.N. and government officials blamed worsening unemployment  and dramatically  decreasing remittances from abroad.  [6] (Otherwisel Howeverl What's more) aS economies deteriorate, poorCT countries are [7] (much/ less/ little)   likely to continue subsidizing food   prices for their own populations. The International   Monetary Fund   predicts   that   emerging market   GDP (Gross Domestic Product) growth [8] (must kad betterl may) fall to 2% in 2009 from 3% last year. That's problematic; [9] Qet so thav because) food prices are likely to begin soaring again toward the end of this year or early next: Agricultural goods, [10] (unlikel in spite of} besides) other commodities; are still more expensive DoW than they were 12 months ago, before the first food crisis began
Concours (Toutes Options)- Scssion Juin 2009
Eprcuve d'Anglals
Psge 3/4

--- page 4 ---
2. Supply the correct tense and verb form:
The Earth's orbit [1] (get) crowded. The past few years [2] (witness) huge growth in the number of satellites. Unfortunately; wherever civilization ventures it [3] (leave) a trail of rubbish. Of the 18,000 tracked objects travelling around the Earth that are larger than 10 cm (4 inches), only about 900 are active satellites. The rest [4] (be) debris ~everything from fragments of paint to entire dead satellites and bits of old rockets. That is quite enough trash, without needlessly [5] (crcate) vastly more of the stuff by smashing up satellites . Yet the destruction of the Chinese Fengyun-IC in an   anti-satellite   missile, which [6] (test) in 2007, [7] (account) for more than & quarter of all catalogued objects in low-Earth orbit. Space junk is dangerous. Anything larger than a fleck of paint [8] (pose) a hazard to the useful working satellites that surround the Earth; and on which the world increasingly depends for communications; broadcasting and surveillance; Space waste is not biodegradable. You cannot sweep it up: Instead; it [9] (stay) in orbit for decades, or even centuries, before it eventually [10] (fall) to earth and burns up. 3. Use the right form of the word given between parentheses: Of all the scientific breakthroughs of the late twentieth century, undoubtedly the one that proved most [1] (controversy) was the cloning of Dolly the sbeep in Scotland in 1997. More than twenty years had gone by since the first successful 'in vitro' [2] (fertile) and transfer at the [3] (embryo) stage that led to the birth of 'Baby Louise Despite the that   genetic   engineering   might offer, many   people had doubts about the benefits reproduction of humans   by other  than natural means   and the potential . dangers   of unscrupulous   individuals  learning the   techniques and applying them for profit. [4] (Physics) had received similar reactions when_ they first succeeded in splitting the atom. People feared that this development would lead to the creation of nuclear weapons which would [5] (tbreat) humanity. They were not wrong: The Second World War ended with the use of these terrible weapons of mass destruction. 4. While keeping tbe same meaning; rewrite the following sentences 9s indicated on the answer sheet. 1. Efforts to secure sustainable economic growth in Sub-Saharan Africa have not achieved any significant results. 2 Unless we use a method that is proven at a wide scale; our results will not be credible. 3. There has been a world energy crisis because renewable sources of energy have not been sufficiently developed. 4. People do not read as much as they used to many years ago 5. Our new assembly line is fully automated. It is also cost-effective.
PART III: Translation & Writing (20 marks) A Translate the following into English : ( 5 marks ) Au cours des dernières années, une plus grande convergence des différentes branches de 1a science et de la technologie a commencé à prendre forme. Cette approche risque de modifier profondément notre rapport au monde. C'est ainsi que des applications d plus en plus imnovatrices vont voir le jour, annonçant une nouvelle révolution scientifiquevee technologique avec des conséquences considérables sur ]environnement; la santé et la vie en société. B - Write about the following topic in approximately 15 lines : (15 marks) New information and communications technologies are said to have brought in our lives comfort and convenience as stress and complexity. What is your opinion? Use as much specific reasons and examples to support your answer. Concours (Toutes Options)- Session Juin 2009 Epreuve d'Anglais Page 4/4

--- page 5 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT Supérieur, de la Recherche Scientifique et de La Technologie
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs
Signature des surveillants
Session
Juin 2009
Concours
Toutes options.
Epreuve de ici  écie / Nom JeC s[en € Institution d'origine
Prénoms
Total des doubles feuilles remises
1
Identifiant
Série
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs Total des doubles feuilles remises Ici Jéqie [ Session :. . Juin   2009. Concours Toutes options. Me Je€ Epreuve de : ANGLAIS   (ANSWER SHEET) . PART I :
Period
Focal interest
Consequences
8 Elucidation of DNA and 1 8 First 1950s subsequent discoveries in revolution molecular and cellular 2 biology 5B Second Explosion of data from revolution genomics and proteomics 2 2 Third 21st revolution century
Scientific discoveries and breakthroughs are likely to be made within the current century
provided that
in order to
Concours Toutes options Session Juin 2009
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 1/4

--- page 6 ---
17e Ilen ecilre [cl
IV - a) [ b)[
V _1.
2.
3
88 VI VJI 78 VIII _ 1. 2. 3. 2 8 IX - a) b) c)
2
X-
1.
2
3.
4.
Concours Toutes options Session Juin 2009
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 2/

--- page 7 ---
WN7e Ifisk (SLlrg L66h
PART II : 1.
6
2
3
8
4
9
1 5 88 2. 3 4 A 8 5 3.
10
8
10
3
2
5
4 1. No significant results 2. Unless we use a 3. Had
method, our results will not be credible
4. Many years ago, people used to 5. In addition to
Concours Toutes options Session Juin 2009
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 3/4

--- page 8 ---
Ie |el (Siufe NSL
PART III : A - Translation:
B ~ Writing:
1 B 8
Concours Toutes options Session Juin 2009
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 4/4