--- page 1 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
Ministère de PEnseignement Supérieur ORst7e; , Prepae; Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation dIngénieurs (eielonce: Session 2000 Yigw6? 'Epreuve d Anglais ( Toutes options Durée : 2 Heures Date 6 Juin 2000 Heure : ISH Nb pages 8
Barème : Part I: 30, Part II: 30, Part III: 20
IMPQRIANI: 1 L'épreuve d'anglais comporte deux séries de feuilles Les énoncés s'étalant sur 4 pages que les candidats sont 'appelés à garder: Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur 4 pages, lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de lépreuve aux professeurs surveillants. 2 Ilsera tenu compte de la présentation, ( Vécriture au crayon n'étant pas autorisée).
1 For the bad guys of NEWHAM; trouble begins with a bleep on a control-room computer. Somewhere on the streets of London's poorest borough a smart camera has spotted a face from its watch list of known rogues. At once staff monitoring a bank of screens from a council-office blocks area are alerted. S0, too, are the police. Across Newham more than 240 surveillance cameras keep permanent watch on likely trouble spots.  Walk the mile from the station to town hall and every step could be observed. And these are no ordinary cameras.
2 Last year, Newham became the first public authority to add sface recognition' software to its armory The cameras will automatically pick out any face held on its 10O-strong database of leading local villains. Intelligence suggests that the top dozen criminals have quit the area. 66 For the first time in 15 years crime here is lower than in the rest of London" says Bob Lack, the former policeman who runs the security operation:
3 Big Brother is alive and well, not only in Newham but all over Britain. More than a million cameras now monitor the citizens movements. That's more per head of population than in any other country . By one reckoning, the average commuter can expect to be caught on film 300 times between opening the garden gate in the moming and retumning at night. Glance upward in almost any town center for proof a wall-mounted camera ~sometimes in a bulletproof casing-trained on the shoppers below. Over the last 10 years the police and the local communities have invested hugely in tke technology. The closed-circuit television system may be intrusive but its record blunts any public outrage. Figures suggest that a network of cameras in a town center can reduce crime by 70 percent.
Still, the sheer scale of supervision feeds fears of a snooper society. Cameras now watch over parking lots, phone booths, elevators and even some public toilets. Some buses carry up to six hidden lenses. Beside all roads into the center of the City, the capital's commercial heart;, stand masts topped by cameras that snap every driver and his registration plate. A generation is growing up that won't know what it means to walk anonymously .
5 The technology can be pretty scary. The latest generation of face-recognition software can scan a million faces on its database in a second. Critics warn that soon authorities might use images and data for purposes that have nothing to do with routine law enforcement.  Unlike most European countries, Britain has no laws on privacy. And the British have a sometimes unhealthy belief in the state's Page 1

--- page 2 ---
wisdom. Other Europeans find the whole idea of cameras an invasion of privacy. The British are usei t0 them.
The camera can't stop some of the most common crimes. The lout leaving the nightclub completel: drunk won't know Or care whether he's filmed And the wise thief or mugger just moves to a nev patch when the first camera appears. Crime is displaced, not eliminated.
7 "A little privacy can secm a small price to pay for the sense of security that cameras bring; To wom) about something like that you must have something to hide,' says pensioner John Peebles, who has seen vandalism and petty crime evaporate since cameras were fitted around his home in a Glasgow housing development. I certainly feel safer now- and I speak for 100 percent of the people here he pointed out. Back in Newham; there' s overwhelming support for extending cameras' gaze. Big Brother is best friend For now.
Newsweek; 28 February 2000
PART I : Comprehension questions on the text 30 marks )
I - Fill in tbe table on thë answer sheet with the needed information from the text
II - Explain how this new product has been improved to become more eficient
[II - On the answer sheet; complete the flow-chart about the surveillance process of tbis new product
IV - Why have the top criminals left Nesskam ?
V - Mention one advantage and one disadvantage of this device
VI - Has the surveillance system proved to be totally successful in preventing crimes ? Give two reasons )
VI - Explain the following statement from paragraph 4 ): < a generation is grcaving up that won't know  what it means to walk anonymously" Mention 3 public places maiuly supervised by cameras.
[X: Pick out from the text; 3 words having similar meanings to 'criminals' _
X -
Choose the closest alternative explaining the following words in their context:
a) likely (8 1 ) 1 ) similar 2) probable 3) common b) intrusive ($ 3 ) 1 ) inviting 2) introductory 3) unwelcome proof ($3 ) 2) evidence 3) sign % 3 paatecsion scary 85 ) scarce 2) accurate 3) fightening e) fitted (8 7) 1) matched 2) fixed 3) suited ,
X - What do the following words refer to in the text ?
a) so ( $ 1 ) b) its ( $ 2 ) c)that ( $ 3 ) d) that ( $ 7 )
XI - What does the writer imply by saying that 'Big Brother is best For now' 2
Page 2

--- page 3 ---
PART II: Language focus 30 marks )
I - Use the correct tense or form of the words given in brackets:
Maurice Ward had been a hairdresser in Yorkshire before he . (recognize ) (1)  officially 2s an inventor. While he . (carry out ) (2) an experiment in his lab, he .(hit )  (3)- upon a secret which nuclear physicists (investigate ) (4) for decades. The general public (hear)- (5)  about Mr. Ward's discovery when he . (appear ) (6). on the BBC. For the last ten years or so, Mr. Ward . (be )- (7). concemed mainly with the promotion of Starlite Ever since he realised the importance of his magical piece of plastic, Mr. Ward . (dream)  (8)  of fame and fortune.
[I - In the following extract:
a) Choose the right alternative among the words given in brackets
b) Among the words provided in the list below, choose those which best fit in the blanks
Huel-efficient
bring about saving designed populatioy
Looking at the new century' s urban traffic conditions with an eye toward (1) energy and protecting the environment; Nissan has launched a compact and futuristically ~(2) pe.sonal vehicle that operates entirely on electrical power: the Hypermini. [3] ( Despitel Although However ) the recent proliferation of large, heavy SUVs; industry research suggests that for 90 percent of the car-owning "(4) the average daily driving distance is no more than 50 km. [5] (Moreoverl In addition tol Despite ) 80 percent of the time; cars have only one or two passengers. Rather than completely replace the automobile; the small, agile and . (6) Hypermini is designed to be the perfect car for these most common driving situations. Research also strongly indicates that  [7] (whilel thus unless people cherish their cars and the freedom they provide; they are [8] (also / eitherl too ) more and more concerned about the harmful environmental consequences which the increasing number of cars may-(9)-~ [10] ( Although In spite of Whereas) it has a tiny size, the hypermini may be big enough to satisfy people' s needs.
II Fill in tbe blanks vith suitable words of your own
The nine million mobile phones in use (a)  Britain have been accused of causing a -(b) of health problems. In the past six _ (c) ~, pregnant women have been wrongly warned that - (d)  phones can damage unbom babies, and there . (e)- been suggestions that they can cause-an _ (f)- in blood pressure that is dangerous to (g) with heart problems; and that they can (h) cancer . In all cases, according to industrialists . (i)- medical experts; the wrong conclusions were drawn
IV Use comparatives and superlatives to make the following paragraph meaningful:
Soccer is (1) [ -popular_ ] sport in the world and the fastest ~growing team sport in the United States. It is good exercise and relatively safe. Some studies; however, suggest this game might not be (2) [- good] for the brain as it is for the body. Soccer players were found slightly (3) [~ bad..J on tests of memory; than the other athletes.
Page 3

--- page 4 ---
PART II: Language focus 30 marks )
I - Use the correct tense or form of the words given in brackets:
Maurice Ward had been a hairdresser in Yorkshire before he (recognize )  (1) officially as an inventor. While he . (carry out ).~ (2) an experiment in his lab, he . (hit ) (3)  upon a secret which nuclear physicists ~(investigate ) (4) for decades. The general public ~(hear)  (5)- about Mr. Ward's discovery when be ~(appear ) (6). on the BBC. For the last ten years OI 5O, Mr. Ward _ (be ) (7). concerned mainly with the promotion of Starlite. Ever since he realised the importance of his magical piece of plastic, Mr. Ward . (dream)  (8)  of fame and fortune.
II - In the following extract:
a) Choose the rigbt alternative among the words given in brackets
b) Among tbe words provided in the list below, choose those which best fit in the blanks
Hfuel-efficieot
bring about saving designed populatiog
Looking at the new century's urban traffic conditions with an eye toward (1)- energy and protectiag the environment; Nissan has launched a compact and futuristically . (2). pe.sonal vehicle that operates entirely on electrical power: the Hypermini. [3] ( Despitel Although However ) the recent proliferation of large, heavy SUVs; industry research suggests that for 90 percent of the car-owning .(4). the average daily driving distance is no more than 50 km: [5] (Moreoverl In addition tol Despite ) 80 percent of the time, cars have only one or two passengers. Rather than completely replace the automobile; the smalL agile and 4(6) Hypermini is designed to be the perfect car for these most common dri iving situations . Research also strongly indicates that [7] (whilel thus unless people cherish their cars and the freedom they provide; they are [8] (also / eitherl too ) more and more concerned about the harmful environmental consequences which the increasing number of cars may_(9)- [10] ( Although In spite of Whereas) it has a tiny size, the hypermini may be big enough to satisfy people' s needs.
III Fill in tbe blanks vith suitable words of your own
The nine million mobile phones in use (a)  Britain have been accused of causing a (b) of health problems. In the past six ~ (c), pregnant women have been wrongly warned that _ (d)  phones can damage unbomn babies, and there . (e)- been suggestions that they can cause-an . (f). in blood pressure that is dangerous to . (g)  with heart problems; and that they can (h)- cancer. In all cases, according to industrialists . (i)  medical experts, the wrong conclusions were drawn.
IV Use comparatives and superlatives to make the following paragraph meaningful: Soccer is (1) [ _popular_ ] sport in the world and the fastest ~growing team sport in the United States. It is good exercise and relatively safe. Some studies, however, suggest this game might not be (2) [- good.] for the brain as it is for the body. Soccer players were found slightly (3) [- bad] on tests of memory; than the other athletes.
Page 3

--- page 5 ---
PART II: Translation & Writing 20 marks )
A Translate the following sentence into English: ( 5 marks)
1 . Grâce à cette nouvelle technologie de surveillance,  le taux de criminalité n'a jamais été  aussi bas que ces derières années. 2. S il y avait eu moins d'actes de vols; la police n'aurait peut-être pas investi tant dargent dans ces équipements ultra modernes.
B Write about 15 lines on the following topic: 15 marks)
Which major technological products; do you think, will continue to exist in our present century ? and which ones will be phased out ?
Page 4

--- page 6 ---
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNI:MENT SUPERIEUR
Concours d'entréc aux cycles dc forination d*{ngénicurs Session 2000
[FREUvE 1) 'AN(;LAIS
Signoture des surveillants
Nom
Prénoms:
Identiticalion
Séric
ANSWER SHEETS
PART I :
1
Name of the new
technological product
Components
Objective
a
b
1 The face of a criminal is spotted by the camera 1 8 é : IV 4 V -Advantage: - ~Disadvantage
The criminal is chased

--- page 7 ---
NE RIEN ECRIRE ICI
PART II
I
2
3
4 7
5
8

6
2 1 3 8 4 5 B & : a 4 6 7
7
8
9
10
f
g b
i
IV _
2
3
3

--- page 8 ---
NE RIEN ECRIRE ICI
PART III:
A
Translation
B - Writing
8 1  @ 4 3