--- page 1 ---
4 isj) 52/421 #.jx:lgzïs &#Lwb Josin Gibsi 2i,bLiji Mi Qs Jalyi 2015 6,9
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Ministère de 1Enseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche Scientifique
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs Session 2015
Concours Toutes Options Epreuve d Anglais
Date Lundi 08 Juin 2015
Heure 14 H
Durée 2 H
Nb pages 08
Barème Part I 30, Part II 30, Part III 20
IMPORTANT 1- Lépreuve danglais comporte deux séries de feuilles Les énoncés s'étalant sur pages que les candidats sont appelés à garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answers sheets) s'étalant sur pages, lesquelles Doivent être rendues à la fin de Fépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2 - Il sera tenu compte de la présentation; (Vécriture au crayon n'étant pas permise)
Reading passage: 1 - Australian aircraft engineers have called for Airbus A380- the world's biggest passenger aircraft - to be grounded; after Singapore Airlines and Qantas found cracks in the wings of their   super jumbos ~We can't continue to gamble with people's lives   and  allow those aircraft to fly around and hope that they make it until their four-yearly inspection; said Steve Purvinas, secretary of the Australian Licensed Aircraft Engineers Association. Both airlines, and Airbus, admitted that they had discovered cracks; but maintained that the aircraft  were safe. In total, 67 Airbus A38Os are in use worldwide; on seven airlines. The aircraft are in use by Qantas; Singapore Airlines, Emirates; Air France, Lufthansa; Korean Airlines and China Southern.
2- Airbus' new A380 super jumbo has come under fire again, after Singapore Airlines had to shut down an engine and return a flight to Singapore yesterday . ~We confirm that cracks were found on non-critical wing attachments on limited number of A38Os an Airbus spokesperson said today. "We've traced the origin of these hairline cracks; and developed an inspection and repair procedure which can be done during routine maintenance. Singapore Airlines; the world's second-biggest carrier; operates 14 A380s already and has five on order; while Qantas has taken delivery of 10 of its order of 20 A380 aircraft. The A380 has been in service for five years. It seats 525 passengers in typical three-class arrangement.  In total, 238 of the aircraft have been ordered by 17 airlines worldwide.
3- The aeroplanes   are assembled in Toulouse; but parts  are built  across Europe,  with the wings being built in Broughton; Wales. Singapore Airlines (SIA) and Qantas Airways said on Friday they discovered cracks on the wing ribs of their Airbus A38Os, but said the cracks pose no threat to safety and repairs have been carried out. The remarks came after Airbus said on Thursday that  engineers   discovered minor cracks in the wings of 'limited number'   of 4380s, but said the cracks were not affecting the safety of the aircraft. 'Cracks were found on a small number of wing rib feet on an Airbus A380 during inspections in the second half of
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2015
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 1/4

--- page 2 ---
last year. These pose no safety issue and repairs were carried out on the aircraft, SIA's spokesman Nicholas Ionides said in an e-mail .
Lufthansa says it has no problems with its A380 fleet and operations continue as normal. ~Repairs were subsequently carried out on a second aircraft We have kept the relevant regulatory authorities fully informed and will be carrying out inspections and any necessary repairs on other A38Os as they go in for routine checks; he added. Qantas separately said that minuscule   cracking was found in the wing ribs of the Qantas A380 being repaired  in Singapore after one of its Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines suffered mid-air blowout in 2010. ~Investigations have found that   the cracking is unrelated to the   engine  failure   incident experienced by this aircraft in November 2010 and is not unique to Qantas. It has now been repaired, the carrier said in a statement.
5 - "No immediate action is required by A380 operators because the cracking presents no risk whatsoever to flight safety; Qantas said. A Lufthansa spokesman said: "There is no findings on our side and we have normal  operations Airbus  said it has traced the origin of the problem and developed an inspection and repair procedure that will be done during routine; scheduled four-year maintenance checks. SIA, the worlds second-biggest carrier by market value and the first operator of such_ aircraft; operates 14 A38Os and has five on order; while Qantas has taken delivery of 10 of its 20 A380 aircraft on order; according to the airline's website Both Singapore  Airlines and Qantas are using Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines on their A380 fleets . By Rob Waugh January 9t 2012
PART I- Comprehension Questions (30 marks)
I- What type of passage is it? Justify from the text. (2marks)
1/ persuasive 2/ narrative 3/ argumentative 4/ expository informative 5/ instructive
II- Complete the table with the appropriate information about the Airbus A380 (Smarks)
III- Say whether the following statements are true or false and justify from the text (Amarks)
1 - Airbus themselves made an investigation to determine the reason for the cracks. 2- The A380 operators need to intervene at once to make passengers feel safe.
IV- Select the correct alternative (3marks)
Australian aircraft   engineers want: *a- the A380 to be inspected each year *b- Airbus to stop manufacturing the A380 version *c-to prevent the A380 from flying for safety reasons
2 - Besides Singapore Airlines and Qantas, *a- many American airlines have ordered the A380 #b- other airlines worldwide are using the Airbus 380 *c- the SIA could not wait for the scheduled four-year checks
3 - Investigations have shown that *a- the cracking has nothing to do with the engine failure experienced in 2010 #b- the cracks were indeed at the origin of the engine breakdown *c- the problem was not with the cracks themselves but with the engines Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2015 Epreuve d'Anglais Page 2/4

--- page 3 ---
V-Pick out at least 4 sentences showing that the cracks presented no risk to the safety 0f passengers on the A380 (Amarks)
VI- Find out 3 words showing that the cracks were slight, thin and trivial (L.Smark)
VII- Complete the following sentences with reference to the passage (2.Smarks) 1 - From the passage; we can understand that Qantas is (a) belonging to (b) 2 - In November   2010, Qantas A380 had to be returned to Singapore   Airport for (a). because (b) 3- Lufthansa will continue its routine checks although (a)
VIII- Explain what is written in bold character (Amarks) 1 - we can't continue to gamble with people's lives ($1) 2 - Airbus has come under fire again (82) 3- repairs were subsequently carried out (84) 4 there is no findings on our side (85)
IX- What do the underlined words in the text refer to (Amarks) 1- These (83) 2- We (84) 3- the carrier (84) 4- such aircraft (85)
PART II Language (3Omarks)
I- Put the bracketed words in the right tense or form (10 marks)
The man, [1] (identify) only by the family name Lee, [2] (find) slumped in a chair in the café in Kaohsiung   city; Taiwan The   32-year-old   [3] (initiallylthink) to be   asleep until an employee [4] (realize) that he [5] (not/ breathe) and rushed him to hospital,   where he was pronounced [6] (die). Doctors said Lee [7] (die) of cardiac [8] (fail), ruling it ssudden death" from prolonged [9] (game). It is not clear what game he [10] (play) at the time; but a report described it as a 'combat computer game" .
II- Select the right alternative (lOmarks) Human beings have increased the CO? [1] (consumption- congregation- concentration) in the   atmosphere by about thirty percent;   [2] (whom- whose- which) is an extremely [3] (significant- thick- solid) increase; even on inter-glacial timescales. It is believed that human beings are responsible [4] (of- to- for) this because the increase is almost   perfectly [5] (correlated - dependent- attributed) with increases in fossil fuel combustion; and also due to other evidence [6] (likely- such as- unlike) changes in the ratios of different carbon isotopes in atmospheric CO? that are consistent with   anthropogenic (human caused) emissions Combustion of fossil fuels; for electricity generation; transportation and [7] (heat- heating- heaters) , and also the manufacture of cement; all result in the [8] (totally - totalizing - total) worldwide emission of about 22 billion tons of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere each year. [9] (About- Up- More) a third of this comes from electricity generation; and another third from transportation; and a third from all [10] (others- of others- other) sources .
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2015
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 3/4

--- page 4 ---
III - Express  differently  starting as given on the answer sheet (keep the same meaning) (IOmarks) 1 - The ambulance didn't come on time that's why the boy didn't survive. 2- Why don 't you go there with your dad? 3 - Unless you take the train now, you won't arrive on time. 4- "Do you know the way to the museum?" the tourist asked the boy. 5- Despite the heavy rain; we enjoyed our holidays. 6- The Earth has been hit by an asteroid. 7 - Its a pity I didn't see the film yesterday. 8 - Children scarcely read books these days. 9 - The beeper that is operated by batteries displays sports data. 10-John wouldn't like to learn how to design websites
PART III Writing (20 marks) I- Find and correct the five mistakes in the following paragraph (2.Smarks) Television encourages passive enjoyment We become content of second-hand experiences. It is so easy to sit in our armchairs watch others working. Little by little; television cuts us of from the real world. We get so lazier; we choose to spend a fine day in semi-darkness; glued to our sets, rather than go out into the world itself.
II- Put in order to obtain a coherent paragraph (2.Smarks) 1 - is not allowed to enter the United States 2 - of "terrorist organization Or who has engaged or   engages in terrorism-related activity 3 - and is ineligible for most immigration benefits. 4- generally; any individual who is a member 5- as defined by the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA)
III - Essay (ISmarks) Tunisia ranks high in the number of road accidents and casualties: What are; according to you; the causes of such disaster  and what  are the appropriate  solutions to avoid this national tragedy? Write a 15-line essay in which you mention solid arguments.
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2015
Epreuve d'Anglais
Page 4/4

--- page 5 ---
République Tunisienne
Concours Nationaux dentrée aux cycles De Formation dIngénieurs
Signature des surveillants
Ministère de Fenseignement supérieur et de la recherche scientifique Session Epreuve de
Juin 2015. Concours
Toutes options.
Nom Ne rien Institution dorigine Ecrire Identifiant ici
Prénom
Total des doubles feuilles remises
Série
Concours Nationaux dentrée aux cycles de Formation d 'Ingénieurs Session Juin 2015. Concours Toutes options.
Total des doubles feuilles rcmiscs
Ne rien
Epreuve de ANGLAIS (ANSWERS SHEETS) Part [- Reading Comprehension (30 marks) I- What type of passage is it? Justify from the text. (2marks)
écrire
ici
Justification: II- Complete_the_table_with information about the_Airbus A380 Smarks) Type of plane
Year of entering service
Manufacturer(s)
Capacity
; 3 Control frequency II- Say whether the statements are true or false and justify from the text (Amarks) 88 2 - IV- Select the correct alternative (3marks) ;; 1 - Australian aircraft engineers want 2- Besides Singapore Airlines and Qantas, 2 3 - Investigations have shown that V- Pick out at least sentences showing that the cracks presented no risk to the safety of passengers on the A380 (Amarks)
2 -
Concours (toutes options) - Session Juin 2015
Epreuve d Anglais
Page 1/4

--- page 6 ---
NE RIEN ECRIRE
ICI
3 -
VI- Find 3 words showing that the cracks were slight, thin and trivial (1.Smark)
VII- Complete the following sentences with reference to the passage (2.5marks) 1 - From the passage, we can understand that Qantas is belonging to In November   2010, Qantas A380 had to be  returned to Singapore   Airport  for because
; ; Lufthansa will continue its routine checks although ; VIII- Explain what is written in bold character (Amarks) We can t continue to gamble with people's lives ;8 2 - Airbus has come under fire again 2 3 - repairs were subsequently carried out
and has five on order
IX- What do the underlined words in the text refer to (Amarks) 1- these (83): 2- we (84): 3- the carrier 84): such aircraft 8S):
Concours (toutes options) - Session Juin 2015
Eprcuve d' Anglais
Page 2 /4

--- page 7 ---
NE RIEN ECRIRE
ICI
Part I- Language (30 marks) I- Put the bracketed words in the right tense or form (IOmarks)
5
10
8 II- Select the right alternative (10 marks) 2 88 3 4 5 10 ; ; III - Express differently starting as given (keep the same meaning) (IOmarks) 3 1 - Had 2 2 - If I were you, 3- Provided 4- The tourist asked the boy 5- Although 6- An asteroid Iwish 8 Scarcely 9 - The beeper displays sports data. 10- John is not keen on
Concours (toutes options) - Session Juin 2015
Epreuve d Anglais
Page 3 / 4

--- page 8 ---
NE RIEN ECRIRE
ICI
Part III - Writing (20 marks) 1- Find and correct the five mistakes (2.Smarks)
Mistake
Correction
2
3
4
5
8 II- Put in order to obtain a coherent paragraph (2.Smarks) 2 - 3- 4- 5- p IL - Essay (ISmarks) ; ;; 2
Concours (toutes options) - Session Juin 2015
Epreuve d' Anglais
Page 4 / 4