--- page 1 ---
3314981{fesesi &iaLal.àts &HlLdb ~aJsaj sLj &n>buj 2025*)> {Uunk Ji igll
RFPURLIQUE TUNISIENNSE Miriserc ce ['Eosdgpement Surericur et rin Rechercbe Sciruti/ ut Couqur} Nul'onaax d'Entret 2u1 Caes de Formadon dIngecicurs Scssinn 2024
Coucc urs toutes Options Epreuve €' Arglais
Eri Heurre IJI
Date 30 Mai 2/)25
Durén 2 H
Qu1e
THE TEKT
(Bibliothèque ) Unhensite € 59 deSlal Chin a is reuolutionizlng firefighting with drone technology 1- Where firefighting is sorceraed, China is settinng the tail ablaze: with its newest crone technology From high-rise firës to wiljfres 'preaving across thé most inaccessible landscape:, drones are the unsung heroes of moda:rn firefighting; How do these flying marvels change the game and save lives? 2-For China : burguoni +g ciies and sprawlirig forests, frefghters face particular challenges. Traditional firefighting methods, ladder trucks, ant ground crews carit always reach the flames on the 30t floor of a skyscraper or deep in & forest. Enter firetighting drones with cutting-edge technology and a mission to reach places humnan; can't. 3- Leading this trerisformatior; are drcnes like the EHang 216F;, which is rnanned and has eight arm; carrying heavy-duty nazles t}æt can spray foamn or any other extinguisher over 1,00O feet above th": ground. Its desigr ed t( navigate the tightest of city corridors ard drop fire suppression right in the heart 0f higl-rise emergencies. Another highliht is the Aerial Scoter Drone, which Is reportedly capable of reaching; 200 rneters in altitude within an amazing 30 seconds and dousirg tire, covering an area cf around 200 ni wih dry pcwder bombs 4- The reconnaissance drones developed by comnpanies like the XCMG Group, which use Al-driven systems to map fire zones ir real time, are equally' impressive These drones send vital information back to teams on the ground, where Wts used to expedlte decision-making.  This enables the detection cf heat sources anc structural weaknesses, greatly  {rriprovlng safety and efficiency 'Juring firefighting operations . Not only are these drones fast; but thevre also smriart: reconnaissance drones survey a scene, provlte reak-tirru: data, and chart safe evacualion routes for ground crews. 5-The biggest advantage of one ofthe drones is their speed A fire can get out of hand in seconds, and every second counts. Conventional firelighting usually consists of arriving on site, preparing equipmert, fighting treffic en route, anid strategizlng at the incisent scene. Drones; however; are airborne within moments, otfering real-time viewws of the fire behaviour 6-That is just a lifeesaver with the rapic deployment, especially in urban areas where narrow streets €r towering buildings; irriede access. Drvsnes can #y directly to the source of the flames , reaching spxits that othervrise wauld bv 'mnpossible. Drones also mrinirrize the risks to firenghters. By surveilling and delivering fire suppression   materials   fram the air; they reduce human exposure to dangeraus environments , 7- Chinese drone techiofogy is not just about #chting fra but dcing 22 with imagination and precision. For example, the SKU #97 Drone is cesigned to address high-rise emergencies by smashing through

--- page 2 ---
tempered glass and relea asing dry powder into buildings to choke the fire out from the inside with no risk of injury to fire personnek. Another type vas the Fire Helicopter; which had six rotors and could fly adroitly down à narrow cry or dense forest canop} passages with ease. Of course, It is not all about the hardware; these Al-pawered drones would study firi behaviour; track its spread, and predict where the fire ray be going They would comrnunicate with the teams on the ground to make every move strategic and effective .
&- Chinese drones are nol: just theoretical ideas; they have heen used In the field . A dramatic video captured three drones working  harmoniously to extingguish multi-storey building fire In Shaanxi province. The cirones deployed suppressants cirectly to the fames while capturing critical data for the ground teams.  Durirg 'wildfres In Chorgqlng; drcne; prpved indispensable. They fought fires, performed as sky eyes to cconiinate the ground operation of firefignting work, and even carried materials to supply the fighting group on the grounc , 9- Despite their success, firefighting drones dc have limitations. The restricted battery life limits flight time, and adverse weather, like strong winds ar heavy smmike, may not permit operations; There are also regulatory harriers t) consider; the use of drones is highly restricted within restricted airspaces. The other challenge is peopla's perception- Safety and privacy issues damper their acceptance in populated areas, Which may be extremely beneficial. China has set the global standard in drone technology The speedy; smart, and hardy drones mighc change firefighting worldwide. 10- Think about it: a fire in some high-rise skyscraper future where drones swoop in, one by one, fighling the fire, beating it vut floor by floor in a cocrdinated fashion. Equipped with thermal imaging, the drones head into the wilderness chore of fighting a wildfire with real-timne communication on their autonomous raute; The fact that China warrnl embrace; fire fighting dranes speaks valumass: safety; novelty and tech at their firest. As such, ilying heroes ccrtinue in their developmnent phase, promising firefighting will be much safer; faster and rrore effective. This proves that the best way of fighting fire is sometimes through the :kies
January 10, 2025
Hypefresh

--- page 3 ---
IMPORTANI :
@uc: Ilsera tenu compte de la présentation, (l'écriture au crayon n'étant pas pernisel   (Bibliota:s: PART ONE: Reading comprehension {Imhsu) ~ Uxve Question 1
Fill in the chart with information from the text:
Name cf the drone
Parts and accessories
Intervention area
o
EHang 216F
High rise emergencies
Fire helicopter
Question 2
These statements are {alse. Provide the right justifications from the articie: a-All the drones mentioned in tke text are operated remotely without a pilot on board
b-The writer thinks that the firefighting drones have already reached their final progress stage
Question 3
Fill In the blanks with words Or Phræes from thP text:
It has been proved through two case studies that joint efforts between drones and firefighters are efficient. In the first, the technological devices managed to spread straight on blazes   in edifice, In the second, the drone and the fireman  worked and effectively whict helped the former to act like and it allowed the latter on the ground to see tie entire scope of fire from above;
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2025
Epreuve dAngiais
Pa 8 e 1/6

--- page 4 ---
Question 4
Ânswer the following question: What constrain ts do firefighting drones face?
Question 5 What do the expressions (written in boid In the text) mean? Circle the right option:
setting the trail ablaze {81}: China is at the forefront in the drone technology China is at the crcssrcads with the drone technology Chinz :s 2t & standstill with the drone technolozy
b-  speaksvolumes (510}: talks at an excessive rate with excessive wcrdiness reveals a great deal of information without the use of words speaks loudly enough to be clearly heard
Question 6
Complete the flow chart below with information from the text:
Firefighting
Traditional
Drone-assisted
Arriving pn the incident scene
dropping fire suppression materiais
Putting out the fire
Concours Toutes Options Session Juln 2025
Epreuve dAnglais
Pa g e 2|6

--- page 5 ---
Question 7
Pick out from the text a verb and a phrasal verb having the meaning of:
fght fire:
Question 8 Find in the text words having approximately the same meaning as the fcllowing:
a-îo speed up ($4): b-in à quick and skilful way (57):
5 lessen (89):
Question 9
What do the underlined words in the text refer to:
a-it {êê):
B-so {57):
€ which ($9);
PART TWO: Language Question 10
Put the bracketed verbs in the riglit tense:
Fcr Iong, consumers {wield} thiêit püwer 10 sent messages to brands Now; more than ever; they {want) to buy brands whose values align with their Own, and boycott others to protest_ This phênômenon (recently /cause) harm to brands all across the world after the Middle-East war (break) out, One such brand caught in the crossfire is McDonalds, which in February stated that the company (miss) its quarterly targets for the first time in four years, with sales being most impacted in the Middle East.
Question 11
Put the bracketed words in the right form:
Social media has played an important role in creating consumers' greater (aware) of their collective influence.  With (combine)
effort; consumers see boycotts as a powerful way to express their (satisfy) and push for better corporate practices. In doing so, consumers aim (achieve) several outcomes, including immediate acknowledgement of their concerns about the brand, changes in company policies, and (broad) 09606 industry improvements.
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2025
Epreuve dAnglais
P?8 e 3| 6

--- page 6 ---
Question 12 Find synonyms of the bracketed words: You are given the first two letters of the word: The number %f dots corresponds to the number of the missing letters: Chinese startup DeepSeek's launch of its la (= newest) Al models; which it says are on a par or better than industry-leading models in the United States at a fraction of the cost; is th menacing) to upset the technology world order: The company has attracted attention in global AI = circles after writing in a paper last month that the training of DeepSeek-V3 re {= needed) less than $6 million worth of computing power from Nvidia HBOO chips. DeepSeek's Al Assistant; powered by DeepSeekV3, has overtaken ri competitor) ChatGPT to become the top-ra (=evaluated) free application available on Apple's App Store in the United States.
Questien 13 Find antonyms of the bracketed words. You are given the first two letters cf the word. The number 0f dots corresponds to the number of the missing letters: Mention the word "globalization' and you are likely to get a reaction. Globalization; the creation of a new world economic system dominated by huge cooperations and the "G8" nations, is en idea that has its fervent supporters and its bi sweet) opponents. For its opponents, globalization is seen as system designed to impose the American economic model on the world, fcr the sole be (#ioss) of the USA and a few ûther we pcor) countries . For its supporters; globalization is the way f0 (# backward) to a better world where everyone will ui {# initiaiiy) be better off than they are today
Question 14
Change the undertined phrases using compound adjectives:
A recent UK report backed by the government
report) on
AI safety said that tech companies still rely heavily on models that consume energy models) and especially   fossil fuei. The report suggested 0800
power sources to supply electricity whose carbon investing in new
Jow
(2d
electricity) in
prpiect lasting five years
80006
project)   allowing AI expansion while   monitoring its
environmental impact.
Concours Toutes Options Session Juln 2025
Epreuve dAngials
P a g e 4 | 6

--- page 7 ---
Question 15 Express differently starting as given (keep the same meaning):
a- May be Peter forgot that we had changed the time of the meeting.
Peter might
that we had changed the time of the meeting.
b- They say he is one ofthe most powerful businessmen in Europe.
He is
one of the most powerful businessmen in Europe.
They asked us how we had got on with the new device.
00000
they asked.
d-Do you ever regret not having gone to a foreign university?
Do you ever wish you
to a foreign university.
We have managed to account for all the papers.
We have succeeded
for all the papers.
f-Peace talks were not held by the appropriate parties to end the war more rapidly
Had
the war would have ended more rapidly.
PART THREE: Writing Question 16 Fill in the blanks with the appropriate linkers from the list below: (there are 2 extra wtrds) despite- though- yet- according to- furthermore- such as- as weli as
Several members of the G7, which represents the biggest economies in the developed world, have
already come close to ending the use of coal. Coal makes up less than 6% of the electricity mix in the
UK, Italy and Canada; and almost nothing in France.
it still comprises 32% of
Japan's electricity mix, 27% of Germany's and 16% of the US',
a recent report
the caveats, several climate policy experts welcomed the announcement,
describing it as a breakthrough after years of roadblocks on the issue. The G7 typically leads on global
climate policy: The group's decisions often influence the wider G20, which includes other big emitters,
major   fossil   fuel   producers ,
88686066 Saudi
Arabia and Russia
Concours Toutes Options Session Juln 2025
Epreuve dAnglais
P a 8 e 5 | 6

--- page 8 ---
Question 17
In each line there is one wrong word For each line underline the wrong word and write the correct word In the space provided. TikToks popularity skyrocketed in 2020 thanks in large part for its unique algorithr; who prioritizes showing users entertaining 2 - content weather or not it's from an account they follow. 304000200 n 004090
Users flocked to the app, as do creators, who found it far
easy to quickly buiid an audience and discover almost overnight success .
Question 18 (Essay)
Tc what extent can Artificial Intelligenca be benefcial î0 Siudenis? Write a 15-iine essay where you discuss the question using solid arguments
76888883886
Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2025
Epreuve dAnglais
Pa g e 6 | 6

--- page 9 ---
au Eludes ( 2 (Bibliothèque  2 Unbersie destay
SUGGESTED ANSWERS
PART ONE: Reading comprehension Question 1 (0S * 8) Fill in the chart with information from the text: Name of the drone Parts and accessories
Intervention area
EHang 216F
eight arms
(the tightest) of city corridors
(heavy-duty} nozzles
(the of) high-rise emergencies 02 4000 abave Inz mewd
HieAeniad SKXFOZ€2 SLETA Darnz
High rise emergencies
Fire helicopter
Six rotors
narrow city
[taktppaces dense forest canopy passages
Question 2
These statements are {alse. Provide the right justifications from the article:
a-All the drones mentioned in the text are operated remotely without a pilot on board. (83 linel) Leading this transformation are drones like the EHang 216F, which is manned b-The writer thinks that the firefighting drones have already reached their final progress stage. (510 line 5) Flying heroes continue in their development phase promising firefighting will be much safer, faster; and more effective awa 6L Question 3
Fill in the blanks with words or phrases from the text:
It has been proved through two case studies that joint efforts between drones and firefighters are efficient. In the first, the technological devices managed to spread suppressants suppresios ertng" materials/ dry powder ( borbsX fire  suppression straight on blazes high rise/multi - storey/skyscraper/ towering edifice: In the second, the drone and the fireman worked harmoniously and effectively which helped the former to act like sky eyes and it allowed the latter on the ground to see the entire scope of fire from above.
gheon Rk S

--- page 10 ---
Qux (Preparatolre Etudes , % (Bibliothèque ) 9 2 Uhbersité ` Iejs de Shat
Question 4 Answer the following question: What constraints do firefighting face? Restricted battery life /&ones  Ga Rat Jna @naud Adverse weather (strong wind, heavy smoke) Regulatory barriers Restri'dal au Pfa_Gs People's perception (towards safety and privacy) InBsly ams Prv (vaCy Centans Publc Penca ftiasn Question 5 What do the expressions (written in bold in the text) mean? Circle the right opticn:
setting the trail ablaze (51): China is at the forefront in the drone technology
speaks volumes (510}: reveals a great deal of information without the use of words (2)
Question 6
Complete the flow chart with information from the text:
Firefighting
Traditional
Drone-assisted
Airborne within moments/ flying directly ts the source of flames
Arriving on the incident scene
Surveilling the scene
Preparing equipment
Providing real time data/ offering recl time views of the fire behaviour
Fighting trafic en route
Dropping fire suppression materials
Strctegizing at the incident scene
Putting out the fire

--- page 11 ---
Question 7
Quz Pick out from the text a verb and a phrasal verb having the meaning of: (Rreparatolro = Eludes , fight fire: (Bibliothèque ) ; douse (83) / extinguish (58) choke out (57) beat out (810) Unlversie € 798 de Slat Question 8 Find in the text words having approximately the same meaning as the following: a-to speed up (84): to expedite b- in a quick and skilful way (57): adroitly c- lessen (89): dampen Question 9
What do the underlined words in the text refer to:
a-it ($4): (vital) information b- s0 (57): fighting fire WilR moginaticn 9ng freccsimn c-which (S9): acceptance of drones in populated areas/ their acceptance in populated areas PART TWO: Language Question 10 Put the bracketed verbs in the right tense: For long, consumers (wield) have wielded their power to send messages to brands. Now; more thar ever; they (want) want to buy brands whose values align with their own, and boycott others to protest. This phenomenon (recently/cause) has recently caused harm to brands all across the world after the Middle-East war (break) broke/ had broken out. One such brand caught in the crossfire is McDonald's, which in February stated that the company (miss) had missed its quarterly targets for the first time in four years, with sales being most impacted in the Middle East.
Question 11
Put the bracketed words in the right form:
Social media has played an important role in creating consumers' greater (aware) awareness of their collective infiuence. With a (combine) combined effort, consumers see boycotts as & powerful way to express their (satisfy) dissatisfaction and push for better corporate practices. In doing s0, consumers aim (achieve) to achieve several outcomes; including immediate acknowledgement of their concerns about the brand, changes in company policies, and (broad) broad/ broader industry improvements

--- page 12 ---
Qux (Pilparatolro_ Eludes ( 0 (Bibliothèque ) 9 Unlversité ` xeJS ^ de Sfax
Question 12 Find synonyms of the bracketed words. You are given the first two letters or the word. The number of dots corresponds to the number of the missing letters:
Chinese startup DeepSeeks launch of its latest (= newest) Al models, which it says are on a par or better than industry-leading models in the United States at a fraction of the cost, is threatening mena cing) to upset the technology world order The company has attracted attention in global_ Al circles after writing in a paper last month that the training of DeepSeek-V3 required (= needed) less than $6 million worth of computing power from Nvidia H8OO chips. DeepSeek's Al Assistant; powered by DeepSeek-V3, has overtaken rival (= competitor) ChatGPT to become the top-rated (=evaluated) free application available on Apple's App Store in the United States
Question 13 Find antonyms of the bracketed words. You are given the first two letters of the word. The number of dots corresponds to the number of the missing letters:
Mention the word "globalization" , and you are likely to get a reaction. Globalization, the creation of a new world economic system dominated by huge cooperations and the "G8" nations; is an idea that has its fervent supporters and its bitter (* sweet) opponents. For its opponents; globalization is seen as a system designed to impose the American economic model on the world, for the sole benefit (= loss) of the USA and a few other wealthy (# poor) countries. For its supporters; globalization is the way forward (# backward) to a better world where everyone will ultimately (* initially) be better off than they are today:
Question 14
Change the underlined phrases using compound adjectives:
A recent UK report_backed by_the government ( government-backed report) on Al safety said that tech companies still rely heavily on modelsthat consume energv ( energy-consuming models) and especially fossil fuel. The report suggested investing in new power sources to supply electricity_wvhose_carbon_is low low-carbon electricity) in a project_lasting_five_Years_ ( five-year project) allowing Al expansion
while monitoring its environmental impact.
Question 15 Express differently starting as given (keep the same meaning): a-May be Peter forgot that we had changed the time of the meeting
Peter might have forgotten that we had changed the time of the meeting.

--- page 13 ---
b- They say he is one of the most powerful businessmen in Europe_
Luz
He is said to be one of the most powerful businessmen in Europe.
(preparafolre TElude: (Bibliothègue } # They asked us how we had got on with the new device (Uhhersite _ de Sl2 "How did you get/ have you got on with the new device?" they asked.
d-Do you ever regret not having gone to a foreign university?
Do you ever wish you had gone to a foreign university?
e- We have managed to account for all the papers
We have succeeded in accounting for all the papers.
{- Peace talks were not held by the appropriate parties to end the war more rapidly.
Had peace talks been held by the appropriate parties , the war would have ended more rapidly. IRcffnefridte faili, holel peaa lalie; PART THREE: Writing Question 16 Fill in the blanks with the appropriate lirkers from the list below (there are 2 extra words): despite- though- yet- according to- furthermore- such as- as well as
Several members of the G7, which represents the biggest economies in the developed world, have
already come close to ending the use of coal. Coal makes up less than 6% of the electricity mix in the
UK, Italy and Canada, and almost nothing in France. Yet, it still comprises 32% of Japan's electricity mix,
27% of Germany's and 16% of the US' , according to a recent report. Despite the caveats, several climate
policy experts welcomed the announcement, describing it as a breakthrough after years of roadblocks
on the issue The G7 typically leads on global climate policy: The group's decisions ofien infiuence the
wider G20, which includes other big emitters, as well as major fossil fuel producers, such as Saudi
Arabia and Russia
5

--- page 14 ---
QiI
Question 17
Ratafolre , Eludes , 9 3 (Bibliothèque ) 8 2 4 In each line there is one wrong word. "Unbersite € de Slat For each line underline the wrong word and write the correct word in the space provided. TikTok's popularity skyrocketed in 2020 thanks in large part for 1-to its unique algorithm, who prioritizes showing users entertaining 2- which content weather or not it's from an account they follow. 3-whether Users flocked to the app, as do creators, who found it far 4 - did easy to quickly build an audience and discover almost overnight success. 5- easier
Question 18 (Essay)
To what extent can Artificial Intelligence be beneficial to students? Write a 15-line essay where you discuss the question using solid arguments
Introduction:
Al can be incredibly beneficial to students in many ways, but its impact largely depends on how it's integrated into the educational process
Ideas:
advantages:
Availability: Al-powered platforms and tools can be accessed at any time, providing students with the ability to learn at their convenience. This is particularly useful for students who may need more time to understand a concept or who have schedules that don't align with traditional classroom hours.
Resource efficiency: Al tools can give students access to a wide range of resources beyond what is available in a traditional classroom setting. From virtual labs and simulations to access to online database and learning platforms, Al provides a wealth of educational content that can be tailored to each students needs.
Language and translation assistance:
Al-powered   language translation tools can help students   from diverse   linguistic   backgrounds understand materials in their native languages. This can break down language barriers and create 2 more inclusive educational environment .
Instant feedback and assessment: Al enables immediate feedback on assignments and tests. Unlike traditional methods where students may have to wait for teachers to grade papers, Al can quickly identify errors, provide explanations, and suggest improvements_ This helps students learn from their mistakes right away, reinforcing better understanding and retention of the material.

--- page 15 ---
Automation of administrative tasks:
Teachers can save time by using Al to automate administrative tasks such as grading, scheduling, and attendance tracking. This allows teachers to focus more on teaching and interacting with students, leading to a more engaged to a more engaged classroom environment
Skill development: Al can help students acquire critical skills like problem-solving; data analysis, and logical thinking, which are increasingly essential in the modern workforce By intera cting with Al-driven platforms, students also gain a deeper understanding of how Al works, which can be a key element in preparing them for future careers.
Support for diverse learners:
Al can assist students with special needs by providing tools for learning, such as text-to-speech for students with dyslexia or voice recognition for students with mobility challenges. Al's ability to tailor resources to individual needs can ensure that all students, regardless of their learning differences, have access to high-quality education. Al can adapt learning materials to suit each student's individual needs, pace, and style. It helps identify strengths and weaknesses, creating customized lessons and exercises to ensure that each student receives the appropriate level of challenge. For instance, Al-powered tutoring systems can offer extra support for students struggling with specific topics or accelerate learning for those who are exce sIling
disadvantages:
Dependence on technology: Overreliance on Al could lead to students becoming too dependent on technology; possibly reducing their critical thinking and problem-solving skills. Privacy concerns: Collecting and storing data on students' learning patterns can raise issues around data security and privacy.
Access inequality: Not all students may have equal access to the necessary technology; potentially exacerbating existing educational inequalities Conclusion:
In summary; Al has the potential to significantly enhance student learning experiences and outcomes, but its integration must be done thoughtfully and responsibly to maximize benefits and minimize risks