--- page 1 ---
~)y/eaj) Ukfggzs eyLsls av uiaji  2uLJi Nmi ifjl>yi 20136~
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE Ministère dc [Enseignement Supéricur ct de la Recherchc Scicntifique
Concours Nationaux d'Entrée aux Cycles de Formation d'Ingénieurs Session 2013
Concours Toutes Options Epreuve dAnglais
Date Lundi 03 Juin 2013
Heure 14 H
Durée 2 H
Nbre pages :08
Barème Part One: 30, Part Two: 30, Part Three: 20
IMPORTANT: 1 L'épreuve danglais comporte deux séries de feuilles: Les énoncés s'étalent sur 4 pages que les candidats sont appelés à garder Les feuilles réservées aux réponses (Answer sheets) s'étalant sur 4 pages; lesquelles doivent être rendues à la fin de Pépreuve aux professeurs surveillants 2. Il sera tenu compte de la présentation, (Vécriture au crayon n'étant pas permise }
1 - Its no coincidence that the first boats full of migrants arrived at the tiny southern Italian islands of Lampedusa just two days after a revolution overthrew Tunisia's dictator  That's about how long it takes for rickety;   overioaded ship to CrOSS that   stretch of   the Mediterranean Sea. 2 - The arrivals were few at first small boats of a dozen or so people. But in recent days; as clenched-fist stability in Tunisia gave way to democracy and then near anarchy, the ships became   larger; more crowded and more numerous . According to the UN. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), some 5,700 Tunisians have landed in Lampedusa since Jan. 16 5,000 of them in the past five days leaving Italian authorities scrambling to accommodate what thex describe as an exodus of "biblical proportions. 3 - If Sicily is a ball being kicked by the Italian boot; the island of Lampedusa is an earth won buried deep in the soil beneath; A stretch of largely  denuded rock tucked in a comer between  Tunisia and Libya, its  location has long made it magnet for North Africans seeking a better life or a claim for political asylum. In 2008, a peak year for migration, some 31,000 illegal migrants reached Lampedusa; mostly from Libya; at a rate of roughly 600 a week far slower than what has been seen in the past few days. 4 - But in recent years, the arrivals have slowed. In 2009, Italy pressed Libya to join Tunisia in accepting financial assistance in exchange for keeping a close watch on its coastlines; and the boats stopped arriving. An immigration center in Lampedusa; completed in 2007, was shuttered   just  two years later when aggressive patrols on land and at sea successfully blocked migrants from arri ving 5- On Sunday, however; the center was opened again and filled far over capacity . Built to accommodate 800 people, it now houses more than 2,000 migrants;, many sleeping two 10 bed, on the floor or outside between the buildings. "It's a humanitarian emergency, says Concours Toutes Optians Session Juin 2013 Eprcuve d'Anglais Page 1/4

--- page 2 ---
SstITUT CheFaraidirs  CRUOTHEQUE iloes ' 95 SA
Simona Moscarelli; a program officer with the Interational Organization for Migration who These people need to eal, they need to be flew to Lampedusa in response to the crisis. clothed , they need to drink Every problem of distribution is a logistical nightmare: The arrivals include at least a dozen women; a handful of minors and a man in wheelchair, 6- but the vast majority are working-age men. "There are people who say they re just fleeing says Federico Fossi, spokesman at the UNHCR. "Thiere are others who say they poverty , Some have said they left fearing armed gangs OI are fleeing  from political insecurity . in the street. A few are expected to petition Italy for asylum or to return to Tunisia snipers when the country has stabilized, but the majority of those spoken to by aid workers have said they plan to move on to France, where they speak the language and often have friends OI relatives 7 - For now, 2 spate of rough weather in the southern Mediterranean seems to have slowed the rate of new arrivals Very few migrants arrived at Lampedusa on Monday. The question is what will happen when the skies are clear; Italy's Interior Minister Roberto Maroni has the collapse of the Tunisian and Egyptian govemments: to the fall of the Berlin compaveac mec ollaoee ondhof Comisîanian dulgxp Easten Europe sparked decades of illegal immigration. And indeed; since the fall of the Tunisian dictator; Rome has struggled to find counterparts inthe government in Tunis: On Monday, the-Tunisian govemnment rejected an forces to Tunisia to patrol the country's borders, but Italian to deploy   armed dproposanore deploy Laerneodtor pent up by years of autocracy . Dictators may be able pledged to seal their borders with ease. Its another thing altogether for a democracy, never mind an unstable  transitional government like the one currently in place in Tunisia. Ihe influx is unlikely to end up_ 2nytime soon By Stephan Faris/ Rome Tuesday, Feb. 15,2011 (Time World) PART ONE Reading Comprehension (30 marks)
Select the most suitable title for the passage (1 mark) 1 - Italy seriously considers sending Tunisian migrants back to their country. 2 - After revolution, Italy faces floods of Tunisian migrants. 3- The Italian govemment wants to move the immigrants on to other EU mémber state
are true or false and   justify from the II-Say whether the   following statements passage: (3marks) 1 - Lampedusa has always attracted North Africans dreaming of settling in Europe: 2- All migrants were men who came to Italy looking for a job they couldn 't find in their country III - Mention 5 reasons that urge these migrants to flee from their countries (Smarks)
IV -
was real beadache for the Italian 1 - Paraphrase   the text and say why it authorities to handle the situation of illegal immigrants in Lampedusa? (3 marks)
2- Pick out words_or_phrases showing how much it was hard for Italy to deal with this problem. (3 marks)
Pege 2/4
Concours Toutes Options Scssion Juin 2013
Epreuvc €'Anglais

--- page 3 ---
V
1-Before the revolution, how did the government in Rome try to halt this exodus from North Africa to its lands? (2 marks)
2- After the revolution, which measure did the Italian authorities propose to the Tunisian government to stop the arrivals of migrants? (2 marks)
VI-
The majority of Tunisian migrants consider Italy just a staging point to move on to France for two major reasons. What are they? (2 marks)
VII - Complete the following sentences with reference to the passage (3 marks) 1- In recent years; the Italian fight against clandestine illegal immigration from North Africa has proved effective as 2 - Despite its efficient   protective measures, Italy decided to just for humanitarian reasons. 3- A few Tunisian migrants intend to when their country regains stability .
VIII - Sclect the correct option (2 marks) 1- Fornow, the flow ofmigrants from Tunisia seems to have slowed down because: a- the Tunisian authorities started controlling their territorial waters. b-the migrants were discouraged by the unfavorable bad weather conditions. c-the Italian government sent sea patrols to Tunisian borders.
2 - According to the passage, these huge waves of migrants striving to arrive in Italy will: a - stop when the Tunisian authorities take the problem more seriously. b- force the Italian government to close the country's borders . c- continue to pour despite the great efforts to halt them.
IX - What do the underlined words in the text refer to? (Amarks) 1-They (82) 2- its ($4) 3- those ($6) 4- the influx ($7)
PART TWO
LANGUAGE ( 30 marks)
1
Select the correct alternative (10 marks)
The Himalayas; the world' s [1] higher most high highest) mountain range, may soon hold another record: it [2] will need could) become home to the greatest density of dams in the world. More than a thousand are [3] neitber all either) already operating, [4] (under during in) construction or [5] being been were) planned in northern India; Nepal and Bhutan . [6] In Addition Besides Plus) providing clean energy, they could improve control and access to [7] ( drinking drink drunk) water. [8] ( Although But Despite) they will also pose a serious threat to indigenous species.  Another   recent study suggests the dams will be bad news [9] by on for) many of the Himalayas 300 species of fish Jay Bhatt and colleagues at the University of Delhi studied distribution of fish species in 16   Himalayan   rivers;   [10] and therefore then)   found that   those richest in biodiversity ; with the greatest number of endemic species; were also those where dams will be concentrated
Copcours Toutes Options Session Juin 2013
Eprcuve d'Angleis
Page 3/4
SsMUT Caepanaoire CrlikEOHE

--- page 4 ---
II-
Use the right tense or form (10 marks)
AstiTu Cruohequs (shake) buildings in the Chilean Imeaplaivor Santiago on Wednesday A strong earthquake [1] and the country massive but there [2] (be) no immediate reports of damage or [3] (injure) The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) said the 6.1 magnitude copper mines [4] (notlaffect) Valparaiso; The USGS [6] [5] (strike) 106 km south-southwest of the port city of quake The navy said there was no risk that the quake (initial) reported the quake as a 5.9 magnitude. the Andean nation 's coastline. A spokesman for state miner Codelco: [7] (cause) a tsunami on [9] (operate) noimally. the world's largest copper [8] (produce), said the company's mines quake and ensuing Chile was battered in February 2010 by a [10] (devastate) 8.8 magnitude tsunemi; which caused billions of dollars in damage and killed hundreds of people. III - Choose the best alternative ( 5 marks) on man-made rely blame impose increasing   temperatures Many   scientists   [1] burning ) fossil fuels and say they greenhouse emissions from [2} extracting inhaling measuring flooding ) sea levels and extreme weather events: can lead to [3] rising released ) in the air hit a Global carbon dioxide amounts [4] consumed evaporated commanded classified ) by China; the Intemnational Energy record high in 2011, [5] ( led Agency said in May . differently starting as mentioned in the answer sheet (5 marks) IV- Express 1 - This project will take us two years to complete. 2- To my mind; you should take the train instead of the bus_ arrive on time, we will be able to repair the car. 3- Provided that the spare parts Despite the strong competition; the company has made great profits . 4- 5- Scientists hardly believe in groundless theories. PART THREE Writing Tasks (20 marks) paragraph (2.5 marks) 1  Rearrange the following statements to obtain a coberent al to help the poor bl caused by climate change, c but much remains to be agreed upon d cope with the inevitable loss and damage el Rich countries have promised II Find and correct the 5 mistakes in this paragraph (2.5 marks) person's blood pressure and causes stroke and hurt disease; Being overweight can hike and the problem isn' this two conditions are responsible of a quarter of all deaths together , limiting to the West
III - Essay (15 marks) the only solution to solve the To many young Tunisians clandestine illegal immigration is conditions prooblem of unemployment and 10 escape poverty and hard living opinion with solid convincing arguments. What do you think about this attitude? Support your (DO NOT EXCEED 15 LINES) Epreuve d'Anglais Page 4/4 Concours Toutes Options Session Juin 2013